.\" %W% %G%
.TH INTRO 1
.SH NAME
Introduction to GRASS-GRID programs
.br
.I (GRASS-GRID Tool Overview)
.SH DESCRIPTION
Here are listed the currently running programs associated with the
Geographical Resources Analysis Support System's (GRASS) grid cell
analysis subsystem (GRASS-GRID).  Provided are tools for
overlaying, analyzing and displaying grid cell databases.  Map products
can be printed in full color on an ink-jet printer.  Arc-node data is
also provided for display purposes.  Brief descriptions of GRASS-GRID
tools follow:
.SH Information
help -
The on-line help facility.
.LP 
manual -
Provides access to the on-line GRASS REFERENCE MANUAL.
.SH Grid Cell Data Analysis
.TP 1.5i 
coin -
Coincident tabulation.  Charts the mutual occurrences of all categories from
one cell map with all categories of another cell map.
.TP 1.5i 
combine -
Map overlay tool which allows combinations of map categories
from several maps.  Allows combinations using AND, OR, NOT, GROUP operators.
Created maps can be overlain and/or saved with the commands
NAME, COVER, and OVER.
.TP 1.5i 
weight -
Map overlay tool which allows map descriptive categories to be
assigned numeric values (weights).  The different values associated with
a given cell in the user's selected map layers are summed or multiplied
to calculate that cell's total value.  Values are often assigned such that
a higher numeric value indicates higher suitability for some user-defined
purpose.
.TP 1.5i 
neighbors -
An interactive program to enhance or subdue data values by modifying a
data value based on the values occurring in surrounding cells.  Results can
contain the mode, min, max, average, diversity, or interspersion factor of
the area surrounding each cell.
.TP 1.5i 
distance -
Generates distance-from maps based on existing map layers.  New 
maps contain information about distances from each "cell" to the
closest cell containing a category description of your choice.
.SH Graphics
.TP 1.5i 
display -
Multipurpose graphics monitor program for displaying map layers.
Map editing functions include vector map overlays, labeling, and drawing.
.TP 1.5i 
paint  -
General purpose access to the color ink-jet printer. 
Options allow the user to produce a hardcopy map
from the data cell files (the \fImap\fR option) and to
modify the color table (the \fIcolors\fR option), as well as
to label maps, etc.
.TP 1.5i
d.3d -
Displays a grid cell file in three-dimensional perspective.  User chooses
viewing location, field of view, and file to use for elevation coordinates.
.TP 1.5i
d.his -
Hue, Intensity, Saturation.  Allows up to three maps to be combined into one
multicolored and shaded map for display.
.SH New Map Generation
.TP 1.5i 
mask -
Map generation tool which creates a map reflecting the contents
of areas within one map corresponding to those areas where the user-specified
contents occur in another map (e.g., Soils which occur
in areas where the geology is of a specific type).
.TP 1.5i 
distance -
Generates distance-from maps based on existing map layers.  New 
maps contain information about distances from each "cell" to the
closest cell containing a category description of your choice.
.TP 1.5i 
reclass -
Tool which allows the user to recategorize the categories of an
existing cell file map while retaining the original layer.  This
program stores recategorizations in reclass conversion tables which
reference the original maps.
.SH Site information
.TP 1.5i 
sites -
Point site information and analysis tool.
.SH Information About Data
.TP 1.5i 
report -
Lists area statistics for map layers.  Statistics for a map layer
correspond to an area of interest defined by the current \fIwindow\fR and
\fImask\fR.  For each category, total area is given in one or more units of
#cells, %cover including/excluding no data cells, acres, hectares, sq.
kms and sq. miles.  The user can specify the units in which reports are made.
.TP 1.5i 
describe -
Lists data values present in user-chosen map layers.
.TP 1.5i 
cell.stats -
Lists area statistics for map layers.  For each category, it provides the
total area in acres, hectares, and sq. miles.
.TP 1.5i 
layer.info -
Lists detailed information about a chosen map including its size, source,
creation date, creator, etc.
.SH Data Lists
.TP 1.5i 
list -
Lists currently available "cell", "vector", and "site" maps.
.SH Miscellaneous
.TP 1.5i 
support -
This capability allows modification/editing of the grid cell support files
which describe the coordinates, the categories, the history and the colors
associated with it.
.TP 1.5i 
window -
Allows users to define and request windows.  Windows are rectangular
geographical areas within the available database space.  Windows also define
the east-west and north-south resolution of the grid cells.
.TP 1.5i
mask -
Users have the option to apply masks to their analyses.  A mask defines areas
within the current rectangular window that are of interest.  One or more
categories from any available grid cell map can define a mask.  Sample masks
that a user might define include:  All Forested Areas, Roads, Water and
Swamps, Training Areas 1 through 6 and 8, etc.
.TP 1.5i
mapmask -
Provides the user with the capability to define specific areas of interest
within a map layer.  These can be specified using regular geometric shapes,
circles, or strings of corner coordinates.
.TP 1.5i
mapsets -
Users define which mapsets they wish to have available to them in the current
session.
.TP 1.5i 
compress/decompress -
Changes format of cell maps to and from a compressed format.  Simple maps can be
compressed up to 99%.  Complex maps like images and elevation may actually
increase in size.  All GRASS programs work automatically with both
formats.
.TP 1.5i
remove -
Grid cell files and their support files can be removed from the current
mapset using this tool.
.TP 1.5i
rename -
Grid cell files in the current mapset are renamed.
.TP 1.5i
gisenv -
Prints the current environment, or set of variables, associated with the user's
current GRASS session.
