Mlines - create line/point data overlay [ -oci [args]] [ -m ] def_file [  files
] is a graphic function in the MAPGEN graphic series which provides for creat-
ing line, point and/or posting map overlays from  geographic  coordinate  data
file[s].   Although  performs  many of the same operations as it is recomended
that be employed when dealing  with  purely  posting/point  operations  as  it
suffers  considerably less overhead than Most of the following options can ap-
pear in any order: This option specifies the required map definition file.  If
the  is omitted, must be the first file listed.  This option specifies the map
overlay metagraphic file.  If this option is specified, a plot of the  graphic
file is output to the controlling terminal.  If the option is omitted, then is
implied.  This options provides for  run-line  inclusion  of  graphic  options
listed  below.  If there is more than one option or imbedded blanks, the field
must be enclosed in quotes or apostrophies.  One or  more  data  that  contain
geographic,  posting,  and control data.  If no files are specified, or if a -
argument is encountered, reads from the standard input.  Files  are  processed
in left to right order.  The following options provide for graphic control and
may only appear in the run-line field or the data file[s].   Control  data  in
the  data files must be on lines with a # character in column one.  A second #
character on these lines causes the remainder of the line to be  ignored  and,
consequently, may be used for comments.  There are three basic modes of opera-
tion: plotting where a symbol is  displayed  at  each  geographic  coordinate,
where  one or more fields of data from the data record are printed at the geo-
graphic point and drafting between data points.  Consequently, several options
require either an s, c or l prefix to denote whether the option applies to the
respective point, posting, or line control.  For example, selects  point  font
while  selects  the posting font.  Line drafting has three methods of display:
solid lines, dashed lines and symbol  lines.   Symbol  lines  are  similar  to
dashed  lines except that the graphic employed in lieu of the dash segment may
be any character(s) from the symbol character font.  The symbol line form  may
be combined with either the solid or dashed line option.  The font selected by
the (select symbol font) determines the character set used by the  the  symbol
line  generator.   is  any set of one to 8 symbols selected from the character
symbol font to be employed in a repeated manner when drafting symbol lines.  A
special  symbol  (\177) may be employed to denote an empty point in the symbol
sequence.  Any symbol (including the empty point symbol) with the most  signi-
ficant  bit  (sign)  set will cause 180joJ rotation of the current and following
(if any) symbols.  At the start of each cycle through the rotation rotation is
set to 0joJ so that if a line is progressing from left to right the symbol would
appear right side up.  If a single symbol is to appear  in  a  reverse  manner
then  \200  should  be added (i.e. a reverse rotation letter A would be \301).
To create a sequence of symbols with alternating rotation  then  two  or  more
symbols  must  be  used with the sign set on some symbol other than the first.
For example, -a A\301 will cause the letter A to be plotted  with  alternating
rotation.   This starts line drafting in a manner similar to the option except
that the following data coordinates contain intermediate  Bezier  points  that
will cause smooth line interpolation.  Bezier option must be respecified when-
ever line drafting is suspended by a option.  This  option  provides  for  the
generation  of  rhumb  lines  (lines  of  constant azimuth) when is a positive
value.  The larger the value of the coarser the rhumb  fit  will  be  and  the
greater likelyhood of visible straigh line segments.  Generally a selection of
is considered and optimal value for publication work.   When  zero  or  absent
normal lines directly connecting coordinates are employed.  When employed with
non-rhumb lines in a single control-data file a should separate line segments.
This option specifies a break in the line.  Line drafting will be discontinued
at the last point and restarted at the next data point.  When occurs as a sol-
itary  option, the subsequent data posting fields are to be plotted.  This op-
tion selects the point symbol to be employed.  If is a numeric value  then  it
is the numeric selection of the symbol otherwise the ascii value.  and are the
respective field control words of the longitude and latitude data fields (data
must be in DMS format).  Both field control words are of the form where is the
field number, is the number of characters to skip from the  beginning  of  the
field,  and  is  the  length of the field.  If is not specified or 0, then the
remainder of the field is employed.  If or  are  omitted  then  1  and  0  are
respective assumptions.  If this option is omitted then a default value of "-d
2,1" is assumed.  The list of field control words following  this  option  de-
fines  the data fields to be posted.  The format of is the same as for the op-
tion.  This option selects dashed mode for line drafting.  is the  name  of  a
graphic  system  font  to  be employed for the point (s) or posting (c) opera-
tions.  selects justification mode for posting data: c  for  centered,  l  for
left  and r for right.  Default justification is left.  Note that is currently
required.  is the interval (in cm.) between symbols during symbol  line  mode.
This  option will select drafting of a symbol line.  If the character (immedi-
ately following is a k then the line will be drafted without a solid or dashed
connection otherwise the letter l will select line drafting.  Note that the or
parameter is still required to control beginning and ending of the line draft-
ing operation regardless of mode.  The and options should be appropriately set
before this option.  To deselect this option  use  either  the  or  line  mode
parameters.   When  occurs as a solitary option, then line plotting is to com-
mence at subsequent data values.  Set the interline spacing (leading) to  /  8
times  the  character size.  If not specified for multiple fields, the posting
data will overplot.  A typical value of 12 (1.5  times)  usually  works  well.
Turn  perform  line drafting with a solid line (default option).  is the value
for the dash line mask.  It is treated as a 16-bit quantity where each on  bit
is  a solid segment of the dashed line.  Note that it must be entered as a de-
cimal, octal, or hexadecimal value (e.g., 123, 0123  or  0x123  respectively).
is  the  mechanical pen to be employed.  Discontinue point (s), posting (c) or
line (l) plotting mode.  If is a numeric value, it is is the number  of  coun-
terclockwise  degrees the posted data (c) or point symbol (s) is to be rotated
about the geographic point.  If is the letter o or p, then the point symbol or
posting is to be made respectively orthogonal or parallel to the track of data
points.  When occurs as a solitary option, then point plotting is to  commence
at  subsequent  data  values.  is the nominal size of the characters for point
(s), posting (c), or symbol line characters (k) or the dash line interval  (l)
in  centimeters.   The character immediately following delimits data fields on
data records (default: "t\t" (tab)).  Use of special  characters  may  require
quote  mark  enclosure.  is the number of centimeters along the x-axis the be-
ginning of the posting string is to be offset from the  geographic  coordinate
location.   Note:  offset is made prior to rotation.  Option similar to except
that it is used for offset along the y-axis.  The character  immediately  fol-
lowing will replace the normal # character that indicate control line and com-
ment.
 Map definition file.
 MAPGEN system documentation.
 Error monitoring only.  Too early to tell  (probably).   Gerald  I.  Evenden,
USGS, Woods Hole, MA.



























@