This directory "src.contrib" contains GRASS code that may be useful.  Some
entries work very well, others don't, still others are just silly.  Some are
useful only to programmers; none are supported nor planned to become
part of the primary GRASS release.  All can be a starting point for adventurous
programmers.

Dcorr        (Michael Shapiro, CERL)
                 Multi-image band correlation scatterplot
Dscatter.plot (Michael Shapiro, CERL)
	         Generate a scatterplot using two image bands
Newworld     (Author unknown)
	         World-Data-Base-I data projection program
cats2paint   (Anonymous)
	         Creates paint-labels file based on cell cats file
contour      (Chuck Ehlschlaeger, CERL)
	         Interpolates between contours in a raster file
d            (Michael Shapiro, CERL)
	         Display program which manages contents of windows. Try it!!
devices/TEKTRONIX (Westervelt, CERL)
                 Lines only graphics driver for TEK 4014.  Not generally useful.
dig2dxf      (Chuck Ehlschlaeger, CERL)
	         Convert digit to DXF format
flat.colors  (Shapiro)
	         Creates color table 0-255 with grey scale 0-255
prune        (Westervelt, CERL)
	         Vector prunning program for GRASS ascii vector files
range.place  (Kewan Khawaja, MIT)
	         Interesting interface to several functions
suntools.start (Westervelt, CERL)
	         .grass3rc startup file
ttd          (Westervelt, CERL)
	         Primitive Tactical Terrain Data to digit code
wdbII        (Westervelt, CERL)
	         Code used to convert WDB-II data into digit files
paint/Drivers/cal5800  (Donald Newcomb, NAVOCEANO)
             Calcomp paint driver. Requires F77 and calcomp library.
paint/Drivers/calcomp  (Bruce Powell, NPS)
paint/Drivers/calcomp1 (Bruce Powell, NPS)
paint/Drivers/calcomp2 (Bruce Powell, NPS)
paint/Drivers/calcompx1(Bruce Powell, NPS)
paint/Drivers/calcompx2(Bruce Powell, NPS)
             Various versions of calcomp paint driver?
grelas       (Bruce Powell, Kenny Gilmore, Jim Farley)
			 Grass cell-files (and color tables) to/from ELAS
dlg_extract.sh (Jim Farley, Arkansas Archeological Survey)
             Shell script to assist in reading raw DLG-3 optional format tapes
pmake.label.sh (Jim Farley & Fred Limp, Arkansas Archeological Survey)
             Shell script to 
