


Dcolormode(2D)       GRASS Reference Manual        Dcolormode(2D)



NAME
     Dcolormode - Tool for viewing map
     (D Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Dcolormode fixed
     or
     Dcolormode float

DESCRIPTION
     Dcolormode sets the type of color look-up table used on the
     graphics monitor.  The command Dcolormode fixed requests
     that the monitor's color look-up table be fixed (i.e.,
     static).  The effect is that colors drawn on the screen by
     graphics calls will not change when subsequent maps are
     drawn to the screen.  Each time a new map is drawn on the
     screen, a color table associated with that map is loaded.
     When the fixed option is used, the colors in the map's color
     table are mapped to the nearest colors available in the
     monitor's fixed color table.  With the float option, the
     color table associated with the map is loaded directly into
     the monitor's color look-up table.

     There are advantages to using each option.  The display
     program allows the user to interactively modify the colors
     on the screen.  This can only be done by directly modifying
     the monitor's color look-up table.  Hence, to accommodate
     this option in display, the float option is chosen.
     However, this option has the sometimes undesirable effect of
     changing the colors used in another map on the screen.  It
     is best used with one or more maps having the same color
     table.  The fixed option allows any number of maps to be
     displayed on the screen, where each uses different colors,
     but all use the same fixed color look-up table.  You cannot
     toggle the color table in fixed mode.

     Some devices support only a fixed color look-up; e.g., ink-
     jet printers, plotters, and the AT&T 6300 (running a DEB
     board).  The number of color categories capable of being
     displayed is also device-dependent.  If your colors fall
     outside this range when in float mode, they may not be
     represented (this is device-dependent).

BUGS
     It is strongly recommended that the user run Dscreen
     immediately after changing the mode between fixed and float.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO[2D]        Introduction to the GRASS D tools
     Dcolortable[2D]   To alter the color table associated with a map
     Dscreen[2D]       Clear monitor, and create and choose a new window
     display[1]        To display and generate final map products



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Dcolormode(2D)       GRASS Reference Manual        Dcolormode(2D)



AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory




















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



