


Dgraph(2D)           GRASS Reference Manual            Dgraph(2D)



NAME
     Dgraph - Tool for generating simple graphics
     (D Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Dgraph [name [color]]
     Dgraph [option=value] [option=value]

DESCRIPTION
     Dgraph draws graphics that are described either in standard
     input (default), or within the GRASS file filename if an
     input filename is identified on the command line.  If
     graphics commands are entered from standard input, a ctrl-d
     is used to signal the end of input to Dgraph.  Options are:

     name=file_name
          Name of file containing graphics commands.  This is a
          UNIX file name; specify the full pathname of the file.
          If no filename is specified on the command line,
          commands are taken from within standard input.
     color=color
          Starting color desired for graphics. Default is white
          if unspecified.

     The coordinate system used is 0-100 in x and 0-100 in y,
     regardless of window size and aspect.   The 0,0 location is
     the lower left corner of the current graphics window.  All
     values may be floating point.

     The graphics language is simple, using the following
     commands:

     # comment
          A line of comment which is ignored in the processing.

     move xpos ypos
          The current location is updated to (xpos,ypos).

     draw xpos ypos
          A line is drawn in the current color from the current
          location to the new location (xpos,ypos), which then
          becomes the current location.

     color color
          Sets the current color to that stated;  subsequent
          graphics will be drawn in the stated color, until the
          current color is set to a different color.  Options are
          red, orange, green, blue, indigo, violet, black, white,
          gray, yellow, brown, indigo, and magenta.

     size xper yper
          Subsequent text will be drawn such that the text is



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Dgraph(2D)           GRASS Reference Manual            Dgraph(2D)



          xper percent of the window wide and yper percent of the
          window high.

     text line-of-text
          The stated text is drawn at the current location using
          the current color.

     icon type size x y
          Draws an icon of types 0, x, or + with specified size
          at location x,y.

     polygon
       xpos ypos
       xpos ypos
         .
         .
         .
          The coordinates appearing beneath the word polygon, one
          pair per line, circumscribe a polygon which is to be
          filled with the current color.

EXAMPLE
     For an example, examine the macro command Dgrass.logo
     located in the GRASS command bin (which draws a GRASS logo
     by inputting Dgraph graphics commands that are stored in a
     shell file).  Note that the coordinates in the Dgrass.logo
     macro were taken directly off an image drawn by hand on
     graph paper.

LIMITATIONS
     There are no automated ways of generating graphic images.
     It is anticipated that GRASS user sites will write tools to
     convert output from a resident graphics editor into GRASS
     Dgraph format.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO[2D]        Introduction to the GRASS D tools

     Dgrass.logo[2D]   Macro generating the GRASS logo
     Dmapgraph[2D]     Tool for generating simple map graphics

AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory











GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



