


DINTRO(2D)           GRASS Reference Manual            DINTRO(2D)



NAME
     DINTRO - Introduction to D tools

DESCRIPTION
     D commands form part of a growing number of command line-
     driven GRASS tools that give the advanced GRASS user an
     opportunity to combine GIS functions with the powerful
     capabilities of UNIX shell commands, fancy user interaction
     front ends, database management systems, and any other
     programs the imagination provides.  D commands are all named
     with words that begin with a capital D, such as Dnew,
     Dchoose, Dcell, etc.  They are all involved with the
     generation of color graphic displays on a color monitor.
     While new and occasional GRASS users will find the highly
     interactive commands sufficient, the user who wants more
     control, more power, and more options will find the D
     commands quite useful.

     D commands are primarily non-interactive tools which take
     their input from the command line, or from standard input.
     (Standard input means taking input from the keyboard or from
     a pipe.)  Some commands have an interactive option when
     appropriate.

FRAMEWORK
     Use of the D commands revolves around the creation, use, and
     management of graphic windows.  These windows are device-
     independent entities which use GRASS code, making no use of
     any machine-specific window management capabilities.  This
     makes the code very transportable, but of course does not
     make use of the more rigorous vendor-supplied window
     management options.  Windows are created with the Dnew
     command.  Any number of windows can be created on the
     monitor at any time.  As you will see, information about
     each window, including its name, location, and contents are
     managed by the monitor program.  A window cannot be used
     unless it is first chosen with the Dchoose command.  Only
     one window is the current window at any given time.  The
     current window is highlighted with a white border, while all
     other windows are bordered in gray.  Windows can overlay one
     another; however, information displayed in a window which
     overlaps another window will overwrite information in the
     overlapped window.

     Several commands draw map-oriented graphics in a window,
     including Dcell, Dvect, Dscale, and Dgrid. Graphics programs
     draw text and graphic objects, like logos, which are not
     registered to the map database. These programs include
     Dtext, Dgraph, and Dlegend.

     Windows can also be removed with the command Dremove
     (although the current, white-highlighted window, cannot be



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






DINTRO(2D)           GRASS Reference Manual            DINTRO(2D)



     removed).  To completely reinitialize the screen, removing
     all windows, the Dclear.screen command is provided.

     Finally, many D commands are really "shell scripts" which
     use the Bourne shell as the interpreter.  These accomplish
     more specific tasks using other D commands.  People
     unfamiliar with the programming language C will find it
     possible to do some significant programming using the UNIX
     shell commands combined with GRASS D commands.  Existing
     commands can be used as models.  Such commands include:


     Dgrass.logo
          which draws a GRASS logo (nothing official here).


     d.sites
          which prompts the user for a site list which then gets
          processed with the Gsites[2G] command and then piped
          (fed) into the Dpoints command.

DEMOS and MODELS
     D commands are, of course, suitable for inclusion in complex
     models and demonstrations. For examples, see the scripts in
     the directory DEMO located in MAPSET: demo in LOCATION:
     spearfish .

COMMAND OPTIONS
     The D tools have a somewhat standard command format.
     Arguments to the D commands can be given either positionally
     or explicitly.  For example, the Dgrid tool can be run in
     either of the following forms:
          Positional:
               Dgrid 10000 yellow
               Dgrid - yellow
          Explicit:
               Dgrid color=yellow size=10000
     The first command gives the parameters by their position on
     the command line.  That command would not work if written:
          Dgrid yellow 10000
     To mix the order in which options can be stated on the
     command line, the option=value (or explicit) form must be
     used. The positional form will accept use of the - symbol,
     to request that the default value for the option at that
     position on the command line be used.  Actually, the two
     positional commands shown above are equivalent since Dgrid
     uses a default grid size of 10000 meters.  Most commands
     will print a statement on usage (correct syntax) if run with
     the single argument, help.  For example:
          Dgrid help





GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






DINTRO(2D)           GRASS Reference Manual            DINTRO(2D)



SEE ALSO
     Documentation on the G, P, M, and I commands.





















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3



