


Dmapgraph(2D)        GRASS Reference Manual         Dmapgraph(2D)



NAME
     Dmapgraph - Tool for generating simple graphics on maps
     (D Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Dmapgraph [name [color]]
     Dmapgraph [option=value] [option=value]

DESCRIPTION
     Dmapgraph draws graphics described in standard input
     (default) or the mapset file filename if identified on the
     command line.  If commands are entered via standard input, a
     ctrl-d is used to signal the end of input to Dmapgraph.
     Options are:

     name=file_name
          Name of file containing graphics commands.  This is a
          UNIX file name; specify the full pathname of the file.
          If no file name is given, commands are taken from
          standard input.
     color=color
          Starting color desired for graphics.  The default is
          white.

     Dmapgraph is used for drawing simple graphics on top of a
     map. The coordinate system used by Dmapgraph is that of the
     map that is displayed on the graphics screen.

     The graphics language is simple, using the following
     commands:

     #comment
          A line of comment which is ignored in the processing.
     move xpos ypos
          The current location is updated to (xpos,ypos) (where
          the map coordinates given fall within the window).
          Default is window's center.
     draw xpos ypos
          A line is drawn in the current color from the current
          location to the new location (xpos,ypos) which becomes
          the current location.
     color color
          Sets the current color to that stated.  Options are
          red, orange, green, blue, indigo, violet, black, white,
          gray, yellow, brown, indigo, and magenta.
     size xper yper
          Subsequent text will be drawn such that the text is
          xper percent of the window wide and yper percent of the
          window high.
     text line-of-text
          The stated text is drawn at the current location using
          the current color.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Dmapgraph(2D)        GRASS Reference Manual         Dmapgraph(2D)



     icon type size x y
          Draws an icon of types 0, x, or + with specified size
          at location x,y.
     polygon
          xpos ypos
          xpos ypos
          .
          .
          .
          The map coordinates appearing on lines beneath the word
          polygon, one pair per line, circumscribe a polygon
          which is to be filled with the current color.

NOTES
     Dmapgraph is identical to the Dgraph command, except for the
     difference in coordinate systems used.
     Dmapgraph will complain if the user enters something to
     standard input that it does not understand.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO[2D]        Introduction to the GRASS D tools
     Dgraph[2D]        Tool for generating simple graphics
     Dgrass.logo[2D]   Macro generating the GRASS logo

AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory




























GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



