


Dmenu(2D)            GRASS Reference Manual             Dmenu(2D)



NAME
     Dmenu - Tool for creating and placing a menu within the
     current window
     (D Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Dmenu [backcolor] [textcolor] [dividercolor] [size]
     Dmenu [option=value] [option=value] ...
     Dmenu help

DESCRIPTION
     Dmenu allows the user to create a menu containing a title
     and numbered options, and to display it within the current
     window.  After the menu is displayed, the pointing device
     (mouse) is used to select one of the menu options.  The
     number of the selected menu option is then printed to
     standard output.  This provides GRASS macro writers with a
     mouse interface for users.

     Options can be stated on the command line, or from within
     standard input.  If Dmenu is run without specified options,
     default values are used.  However, the user must at least
     state a menu title, and one menu option.  Options are:

     backcolor=color
          Sets the color of the menu background (a rectangle on
          which the text sits) to that stated.  Color options are
          red, orange, green, blue, indigo, violet, black, white,
          gray, brown, indigo, magenta, and yellow.  If the user
          states no color, Dmenu will default to the use of a
          gray background.
     textcolor=color
          Sets the color of the menu text to that stated.  Color
          options are the same as those for the backcolor.  If
          the user states no color, Dmenu will default to the use
          of white lettering.
     dividercolor=color
          Sets the color dividing lines of text to that stated.
          Color options are the same as those for backcolor.
          This defaults to black, if unstated by the user.
     size=number
          Sets the menu text size to the specified number.  Sizes
          are stated as percentages of the height of the current
          graphics window.  Text size defaults to 3% of the
          window height if unstated by the user.

     Options may be stated on the command line either
     positionally or explicitly (see DINTRO).  If stated
     explicitly, they must be stated in the order specified
     above.





GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Dmenu(2D)            GRASS Reference Manual             Dmenu(2D)



     The menu text can also be positioned at a specific screen
     location, by specifying its distance from the top and left
     edges of the screen.  This is done from within standard
     input, by inserting the commands .T (to specify the distance
     from the top) and/or .L (to specify the distance from the
     left).  For example,
      .L 10
      .T 10
     will place the menu 10% from the screen's top and 10% away
     from the screen's left edge.

EXAMPLE
     For example, a user wishing to create a menu containing
     options to be displayed on the monitor screen might invoke
     the following command from a Bourne shell script.

     Dmenu red green yellow 5 << EOF
      .T 25
      .L 25
      MENU TITLE
      Option 1
      Option 2
      Option 3
      EOF

     A menu having red background, green text, with menu options
     divided by yellow lines, and a text size of 5% of the window
     height, will then be displayed on the graphics monitor.  The
     mouse cursor will also become active, allowing the user to
     select (by pointing with the mouse) one of the displayed
     menu options (here, these options are called Option 1,
     Option 2, and Option 3).  The first line of text input by
     the user (here, the words MENU TITLE) indicate the title of
     the menu;  this line is not a menu option that can be chosen
     by the user with the mouse.  When the user presses one of
     the mouse buttons while pointing to the desired menu choice,
     the number of the option chosen will be available for
     capture by the shell script.

NOTES
     Although the user can vary text size, all text within the
     same menu is displayed in a single text size (and font).  If
     the user specifies that items included in the menu's text be
     displayed in different sizes, all text will be displayed in
     the size stated last.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO[2D]          Introduction to the GRASS D tools
     Dfont[2D]           To select text font to be used on the monitor
     Dlabel[2D]          Tool for displaying labels in the current window
     Dpaint.labels[2D]   Tool for viewing paint labels
     Dtext[2D]           Draws text in the current graphics window



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






Dmenu(2D)            GRASS Reference Manual             Dmenu(2D)



     Dtitle[2D]          Creates a title for a grid cell map

AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory


















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3



