


Dwhat(2D)            GRASS Reference Manual             Dwhat(2D)



NAME
     Dwhat - Interactive map queries
     (D Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Dwhat [layer1] [layer2] ...

DESCRIPTION
     Dwhat is an interactive tool that allows the user, using the
     pointing device (mouse), to select locations on the map in
     the current graphics window and then be shown what is on
     this map layer or other map layers at the selected
     locations.  If no map layer names are specified on the
     command line, the map layer that is displayed on the monitor
     in the current graphics window is queried by default.
     Otherwise, the current graphics window is used for reference
     and the map layers named on the command line are queried.

     A single dash (-) following the command Dwhat can be used as
     shorthand to indicate the layer displayed in the current
     graphics window (i.e., Dwhat -).

     Dwhat output consists of the location pointed to, and, for
     each map layer, the map layer name, the category number, and
     category label in the grid cell(s) at this location.  Here
     is a sample Dwhat session:

          Dcell soils

               (the soils map is displayed on the graphics
               monitor)

          Dwhat soils aspect

               (user moves the mouse to desired location on the
               displayed soils map, and presses the left mouse
               button to query the soils and aspect maps at this
               location)

                    617112.93(E) 3732014.66(N)
                    soils    (44) Nunn clay loam, NdC
                    aspect   (20) 15 degrees north of west

               (The numbers in () are the category numbers. The
               category label follows.)

     The query may be repeated as often as desired.  The right
     button on the mouse is used to quit the Dwhat session.

NOTES
     Dwhat will always print its output on the terminal screen.
     Dwhat output can also be redirected into a file.  In this



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Dwhat(2D)            GRASS Reference Manual             Dwhat(2D)



     case, the output will go both to the screen and to the file.
     For example:

          Dwhat soils aspect > what.out

     will capture the output from Dwhat in the file what.out.

     The maximum number of layers which can be queried at one
     time is 14.

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory










































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



