


Gdistance(2G)        GRASS Reference Manual         Gdistance(2G)



NAME
     Gdistance - Create cell file based on distances from
     categories
     (G Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Gdistance oldcell newcell [method] < rulesfile

DESCRIPTION
     Gdistance creates a new grid cell data layer showing
     distance (or proximity) zones around selected map
     categories. Both the categories and the zones are user-
     chosen. Gdistance performs the same function as does
     distance, but with less user interface. See the GRASS manual
     entry for distance[1] for more detailed information.

     oldcell identifies the name of the existing data layer from
     which distance-from calculations shall be based.

     newcell assigns the name (user's choice) for the new data
     layer which will contain the results.

     method specifies the name of the method the Gdistance
     program should use for calculating distance. Method options
     are to and from.  If unspecified by the user the default is
     to. These methods are very different in their execution, but
     yield the same results. The decision to use one, rather than
     the other, is based partly on an evaluation of the patterns
     in which categories of interest appear in the specified map
     layer.

          to:  The "tocell" method searches around each cell in
          the database looking for cells from which distances are
          to be calculated. This technique is very fast when
          there are many cells containing the categories of
          interest scattered throughout the area. It works very
          slowly when there are few cells from which to calculate
          distances, because it takes so long to find them.

          from: The "fromcell" method goes to each cell that
          contains a category from which distances are to be
          calculated, drawing the requested distance rings around
          them.  This method works very quickly when there are
          only a few cells containing the categories of interest,
          but works slowly when many cells of this category are
          present.

     rulesfile is the name of a previously prepared Gdistance
     UNIX file.  The user has the option of directing a file with
     the correct Gdistance rules into Gdistance, or entering the
     rules directly on the command line.




GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Gdistance(2G)        GRASS Reference Manual         Gdistance(2G)



RULES
     After entering the Gdistance command line (if the user is
     not directing a UNIX rules file into Gdistance), a (>)
     prompt will appear. At the prompt, the user enters:

     (1) the selected categories in the existing data layer from
     which distances shall be calculated. In the example below,
     distances are calculated for categories 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 and
     14.

          FORMAT:
          > cats# # # [etc.]

          EXAMPLE:
          > cats 2 6 7 8
          > cats 10 14

     (2) the distance zones desired. The user has the option of
     identifying up to 60 continuous zones. The zones are
     identified by specifying the upper limit of each desired
     zone (Gdistance assumes that 0 is the starting point). In
     the example below, the distance zones would be (in cells):
     010, 1120, 2130, 3140 and 4150.

          Format:
          > dist # # # [etc.]

          Example:
          > dist 10 20 30
          > dist 40 50

     (3) end   (This tells Gdistance to terminate input and start
     creating the new cell file.)

          Format:
          > end

NOTES
     Gdistance only works on square cells in the current window.
     Gdistance will complain if cells are not square.

SEE ALSO
     distance[1]

AUTHOR
     Dave Gerdes, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory.








GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



