


Ggrow(2G)            GRASS Reference Manual             Ggrow(2G)



NAME
     Ggrow - Generate output layer with contiguous areas grown by
     one pixel
     (GRASS-GRID Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Ggrow [-vb] inputmap outputmap

DESCRIPTION
     Ggrow generates an output layer from the input layer by
     adding one cell around the perimeter of areas.  An area
     consists of any contiguous clump of grid cells with non-zero
     category values.  No distinction is made between differing
     category values within an area.  Rather, a border is grown
     around the outside of the entire contiguous set of non-zero
     grid cells.

     The optional -v flag supresses the printing of information
     about program operations during execution of the command.

     Use of the optional -b flag will result in an output map
     layer which is completely zero-one, regardless of category
     values in the input layer.  For this case, all grid cells
     with a non-zero value in the input map layer are assigned to
     category 1 in the output map layer.  Without the -b flag,
     these grid cells retain their original non-zero category
     value.  In either case, all grid cells whose category value
     is changed from 0 during the growing process are given a
     category value of 1.

     The output map layer will not go outside of the current
     window.  Thus, if a contiguous area in the input map layer
     extends to the edge of the current window, no new border
     cells can be added to that side of the area.

     Growth around a rectangular area in the input layer will
     occur straight out from each edge, but not diagonally from
     the corners of the rectangle.  Thus, the "grown" border area
     will contain lines along the edge of the original rectangle,
     but the corners of the border will not be squared off.
     Instead, the lines of the border which go along each side of
     the original rectangle will touch only at the corners of the
     grid cells at the end of each line.

     The Ggrow command is useful in representing the boundary of
     one or more areas.  In this case the -b flag should NOT be
     used. Then the input map layer can be subtracted from the
     output map layer using the Gmapcalc command.  All original
     non-zero grid cell values will be subtracted out, leaving
     the boundary areas only.  This resulting zero-one boundary
     depiction can be displayed over other related map layers
     using Doverlay.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Ggrow(2G)            GRASS Reference Manual             Ggrow(2G)



NOTES
     If the resolution of the current window does not agree with
     the resolution of the input map layer, unintended resampling
     of the original data may occur.  The user should be sure
     that the current window is set properly.

SEE ALSO
     grow[1], Gmapcalc[2], Doverlay[2]

AUTHOR
     Marjorie Larson, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory











































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



