


Grandom(2G)          GRASS Reference Manual           Grandom(2G)



NAME
     Grandom - Create a and containing randomly located sites
     (G Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     Grandom [-vz] inputmap outputmap n[%] [sitefile]

DESCRIPTION
     Grandom provides a means for creating an outputmap and a
     sitefile containing sites whose locations are determined
     randomly.  The general region in which to generate these
     random locations is determined by the current and mask, and
     within non-zero data areas on the inputmap on a current
     specified by the user.  The user may specify the random
     locations to be generated either as an absolute number
     (e.g., 10), or as a percentage of the total size (e.g., 1%,
     or 3.05%).  If specified as a percentage, the number of
     random locations generated will be set equal to the number
     of cells appearing in that percentage of the (Note that
     percentages less than 1% may be stated as decimals.) The
     outputmap is created in the current mapset and contains
     randomly located The categories on the inputmap where random
     cells hit are copied to the outputmap. The category names
     from the inputmap are copied for the new A  color table for
     the outputmap is generated to contrast with the colors in
     the inputmap.

     The sitefile created will have coordinates which are the
     centers of the randomly selected cells.


     The user can elect to supress generation of the outputmap by
     specifying a dash - in place of an output name on the
     command line.  Since generation of the sitefile is optional,
     the user can supress generation of the sitefile simply by
     failing to include one on the command line.

     The outputmap may be suppressed by specifying "-".

OPTIONS
     -v   Supresses verbose. Grandom will normally output to the
          error output messages as it runs. The -v option will
          suppress the printing of these messages.

     -z   Generate random locations against category zero as
          well.  If the -z option is specified, the locations
          which fall in category zero will be added as a new
          category to the output

NOTES
     If it is desired to create random locations within some, but
     not all, non-zero categories of the input the user must



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






Grandom(2G)          GRASS Reference Manual           Grandom(2G)



     first create a reclassified of the original (e.g., using the
     GRASS tool reclass) which contains only the desired
     categories, and then use the reclassed as input to Grandom.

SEE ALSO
     random[1], reclass[1]

AUTHOR
     Dr. James Hinthorne, GIS Lab, Central Washington University














































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



