


GPOLY2(1)            GRASS Reference Manual             GPOLY2(1)



NAME
     Gpoly2 - extract areas from a cell map into a vector map

SYNOPSIS
     Gpoly2 cell_map vector_map

DESCRIPTION
     Gpoly2 like Gpoly, scans the named cell_map and extracts
     lines which will separate it into areas and creates the
     named vector_map.

     Gpoly2 will create a vector map from a given cell map.  It
     will outline each unique area in the cell map and create
     vector data to represent it.  The cell values will be used
     to create attribute information for the resultant vector
     areas.  After these areas are created, Gpoly2, rounds off
     the corners by taking the midpoints of each line segment
     (which are the height or width of a cell) and saving the
     area using these midpoints to define the new line segments.
     This usually results in a better looking vector map.
     However, the resulting vector map is not "true" to the cell
     map that it was created from. In addition, the resulting
     vector map is about 30% larger than the vector map created
     by Gpoly.


NOTES
     When the new command line parsing function is available for
     the upper case "G" commands, Gpoly2 will be merged with
     Gpoly and a command line option will select smoothed or
     non-smoothed lines.


BUGS
     Gpoly2 extracts areas only.  If the cell file contains
     something which you don't think of as an area, the result
     may be suprising.

     You will need to run support.vect on the resultant files to
     build the dig_plus information.


SEE ALSO
     support.vect[1]


AUTHOR
     Gpoly - Jean Ezell, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory

     Modified for smoothed lines - David B. Satnik, Central
     Washington University



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






GPOLY2(1)            GRASS Reference Manual             GPOLY2(1)























































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






