


profile(1G)          GRASS Reference Manual           profile(1G)



NAME
     profile - Plot profiles of a cell-file
     (Not available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     profile

DESCRIPTION
     Using Profile you can view profiles of a cell-file map
     layer. Profile is intended for use with elevation cell-
     files.  A profile of an elevation cell-file is a plot the
     shape of the land along a given line.


USER PROMPTS
     First, you will be presented with a prompt asking you to
     choose a cell-file to be used.  Once you specify a valid
     cell-file name, the cell-file will be plotted in the left
     half of the graphics display, and the right half of the
     dispay will be divided into four windows.  There will also
     be two windows along the top of the display: a mouse-button
     menu window on the left, and a status window on the right.

     The mouse-button menu initially offers you three options:

          Mouse Buttons:
             Left:        Where am I?
             Middle:      Mark FIRST Point of Profile Line.
             Right:       QUIT this.

     You may query the displayed cell-file by indicating points
     with the left mouse-button.  The coordinates and category
     value of each point that you indicate will be displayed on
     in the status window.  If you mark the first point of the
     profile line you will be presented with the following
     mouse-button menu:

          Mouse Buttons:
             Left:        Where am I?
             Middle:      Mark SECOND Point of Profile Line.
             Right:       QUIT this.

     Once you mark the second point of the profile line, the
     profile line will be labelled (with a letter from A to D)
     and plotted in one of the four windows on the right hand
     side of the screen.  You will then be presented with a third
     mouse-button menu:

          Mouse Buttons:
             Left:        DO ANOTHER
             Middle:      CLEAR DISPLAY
             Right:       QUIT this.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






profile(1G)          GRASS Reference Manual           profile(1G)



     If you would like to view another profile, click on the left
     mouse-button.  If you would like to replot the cell-file and
     clear out the four profile windows, click on the middle
     mouse-button.  If you would like to quit, then click on the
     right button.


NOTES
     Some enhancements that would be useful:

     1) add an option to plot profiles using category colors,
     like a bar-chart.

     2) allow profile lines to be defined by a series of points,
     not just two.

     3) allow profiles to be saved in a file, for later viewing.

     4) allow user to enter profile line points by typing
     coordinates.



AUTHORS
     Dave Johnson
     DBA Systems, Inc.
     10560 Arrowhead Drive
     Fairfax, Virginia 22030



























GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



