Feb 2000 added cwidth, offset, coffset, lpos for vectors by Radim Blazek 

Jan 2000 added vector areas and legend label for vectors by Radim Blazek 

1998
Patch, which enables user to choose one vector category 
to print from a vector file (Janne Soimasuo, Finnland)
   -> line_cat additions

files: do_vector.c, ps_vector.c
--------------------------
** added #include <stdlib.h> 7/98 Richard Nairn

--------------------------
PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
    Did not plot grid and vecors correctly in lat-lon
    label location also didn't work in lat-lon
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
The manual for ps.map says that fields width and hwidth
specify the width of the line in pixels, which is not true:
they were actually interpreted as width in user space PostScript
coordinates: 1/72 of inch. I made the width double, added width options
for outline and grid, and also now the width ni is isnterpreted as n inches.
 
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
Also in file outl_io.c o_write_line()  is an exact copy of the
write_ln() function in r.poly, which I fixed (GRASS930547) since
it was giving segmentation faults.

It looks like ps.map is doing exactly what r.poly does: creating
a vector file with boundaries of raster areas given a raster file.
Seems like a lot to do just to plot a map. If the user makes 10
different plots with the same raster file using outline, then 
every time exact same vector file is created and deleted.

Instead I want to draw little line segments between every pair of
differing cells without worrying too much about topology.
This will have one drawback: each vector line will be drawn as many
little line segments, each with beginning and the end, instead of
starting the PostScript path at each node and drawing a continuous line 
through all the points of vector line like it is done when drawing vector
maps.
Also I am going to add a line width parameter to outline command

STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update

From anne@cast.uark.edu Mon Dec 20 16:40:49 1993

FIXED BUGS:

  1. removed the G_strip(buf); instructions in function comment.c
     to allow leading and trailing spaces in comment file.

  2. removed statements:
     if (fontsize < 10) fontsize = 10;
     if (fontsize > 50) fontsize = 50;
     in function do_labels.c so as not to restrict the choice of font size.

  3. increased the maximum number of pixels allowed on a page in function
      map_setup.c : 
          limit = 300000000L; 
     if the total number of pixels is larger than "limit" then ps.map 
     reduces it to limit
     This change allows us to print layers at their actual resolution.
     For example: an AVHRR layer at 151 cells per inch. 

     NOTE: we are thinking about assigning different upper limits to different 
     Postscript devices, as an additional parameter in the ps.devices files.

  4. changed function plfile.c so that it accepts a line width of 0
     NOTE: it should also be changed to allow decimal point values.

(I already changed it to decimal number, and made it accept 0 .Olga)

  5. changed function ps_clrtbl.c so that category 0's label is read from the
     cats file rather than replaced by "no data"

PROBLEM DESCRIPTION:
background none in labels did not work, the box was black
The gridnumber size was set to zero if it was >50;
Also I want to add linewidth for grid
STATUS:
    FIXED and coming out with the next update
     

