TODO

This has all been updated to a new version by Michael Barton, and
inserted into CVS May 4 2004 by Scott Mitchell.  The TODO list that
was here is now out of date.

The following is Michael's list of things still not in the menus:


GENERAL
g.ask (for scripting)
g.filename (for scripting)
g.findfile (for scripting)
g.tempfile (for scripting)
g.parser (for scripting)

DISPLAY
d.ask (for scripting)
d.menu (for scripting)
d.linegraph (for scripting)
d.scale (alternative to d.barscale - discontinued)
d.area (duplicates function of d.vect.area)
d.colorlist (doesn't seem to work)

RASTER
r.median (duplicates function of r.statistics)
r.mode (duplicates function of r.statistics)
r.reclass.scs (duplicates function of r.reclass)

VECTOR
v.in.dlg.scs (requires redirected output)
v.patch.scs (duplicates function of v.patch)
v.mkstats (doesn't seem to work. Produces nothing or segmentation fault)

SITES
r.random (duplicates function of s.random better)

IMAGE
r.rvi.prediction (duplicates function of i.rvi.prediction)

GRID3D
r3.showdspf (discontinued)
r3.mkdspf (discontinued?)

DATABASE


MISC
m.kappa (duplicates function of r.kappa)
m.lulc.read (requires script for redirected input)
m.dmaUSGSread (requires script for redirected input)
m.in.stf1.tape (duplicates function of other stf1 input?)

SCRIPTS
hsv.rgb.sh (duplicates function of i.hsv.rgb)
rgb.hsv.sh (duplicates function of i.rgb.his)
g3.remove (function included in g.remove?)
g3.rename (function included in g.rename?)
r.mpatch (duplicates function of r.patch?)
d.resize (duplicates function of d.monsize)
d.rast.leg2 (duplicates function of d.rast.leg)
v.in.arc.poly (duplicates function of v.in.arc.poly binary command)

bug.report.sh (still useful?)
ps.add.pagesize (why update ps. commands any more?)
ps.map.barscale (why update ps. commands any more?)
shade.clr.sh (not very impressive output)
r.edge.dig (gives strange results)
s.in.grid (requires redirected output to s.in.ascii)
intens.sh (specialized version of blend.sh - needs tcl script)
g.html2man (not for normal GRASS use)
g.man2html (not for normal GRASS use)
grass.logo.sh (cool but old CERL logo)

r.avgstats (can't tell what it does)
create_fifos.sh (what is it??)

demo.sh (doesn't need to be on menu)
dcorrelate.sh (doesn't seem to work)
i.tasscap.tm4 (doesn't seem to work)
r.out.gdal (not supported - requires full gdal installation)
d.out.jpeg (CMB additio - needs functioning r.out.gdal)

