ACTOSAG
-------
Use the program UNDXF to convert an ASCII Autocad type dxf format file created 
by AutoCAD or similar program into an text file for processing by UNWAM11.
There are certain guidelines that should be followed when creating AutoCAD 
drawing files that are to be converted by UNDXF to avoid the creation of 
"spaghetti" files.
1.   Avoid putting entities into blocks, because blocks are ignored by UNDXF.  
Any entities in blocks will not be converted.
2.   Entities that represent polygons or polylines should be created using the 
commands 'PLINE', or 'POLYGON'.
3.   Each group of entities representing a certain type should be put in a 
separate layer.  The layer name is used as the id name in the input text file 
for UNWAM11.
Editing AutoCAD drawing files:
1.   If entities are in blocks, they can be taken out of blocks using the 
'EXPLODE' command in the 'EDIT' section.  
     When the 'EXPLODE' command is executed the prompt 
Select block reference, polyline, or dimension will appear on the screen.  
Pick the appropriate feature and this feature  will no longer be a block. 
The entities that were in the block may need to be further edited to create 
polylines or polygons, etc.
2.   Entities that are a group of lines that represent a polygon or polyline 
should be converted using the command 'PEDIT' in the EDIT section.
     When the 'PEDIT' command is executed, the prompt
Select polyline: will appear on the screen.  Pick the appropriate feature and 
if this feature is a line or an arc, the next prompt will be
     Entity selected is not a polyline. 
     Do you want to turn it into one? 
The answer should be 'yes'.  The feature will then be converted into a single 
segment polyline.  To join the rest of the lines into the polyline use the 
command 'JOIN'.  The prompt:  "Select objects"  will appear on the screen.  If 
a single object is chosen, that object will be joined to the last polyline
edited.  If there are several arcs to be joined to the polyline, at the 
'select objects' prompt, the command 'WINDOW' can be entered.  The prompts
     First corner:
     Other corner:  
will appear on the screen.  Two opposite corners for a window surrounding the 
entities to be converted should be chosen, after which the lines touching the 
last polyline edited will be joined together.
3.   Entities that belong in a different layer can easily be changed to that 
layer using the command 'CHANGE'.  The prompt:
     Select object:  
will appear on the screen.  Choose the desired object and then the prompt:
     Properties/ <changepoint>: 
will appear on the screen.  Enter the property 'LAYER'; the prompt:
     New LAYER <current layer>:  
will appear on the screen.  Enter the new layer name for the entity.  If the 
LAYER does not exist it must be created using the 'NEW' command in the 'LAYER' 
section.  For detailed instructions on the above procedures see the AutoCAD 
reference manual.  Although it is recommended that the entities in the AutoCAD 
drawing files be created or changed as described in the above sections, all 
features, including lines, polylines, arcs, circles, donuts, sketches, 3D faces,
3D lines, polygons, and solids will be processed.  The only features not 
processed are blocks and text.
     To run UNDXF type 'UNDXF filename'.  If the filename is omitted the prompt.
     Input filename: 
will appear on the screen, and the name of the desired filename should be 
entered.  If an invalid filename is entered, the prompt is
     Unable to read filename.
     Enter new filename (q=quit) 
If a 'q' is entered, the program is terminated.  Otherwise the filename entered
will be checked, and the above procedure will repeat until a 'q' or valid 
filename is entered.  Once a valid filename is entered, the file will be 
processed, and an UNWAM11 format file with the same name as the entered filename
will be created.  This file can then be processed by UNWAM11.


SAGGTOAC
--------
1.  In DOS, place the SAGIS-to-AutoCAD software, sagtoac.exe, where it will be 
accessible.
2.  In UNIX, use the SAGIS utility mapdraw to create a text file that 
sagtoac.exe will read and
convert to .dxf files.  Follow these steps exactly:
mapdraw>list (CR)    (Starts up mapdraw.  Note the ">list" part of the command.
                     It will cause all output from mapdraw to go to a file named
                     "list".)
             NO PROMPTS WILL APPEAR ON THE SCREEN, BECAUSE ALL
                       OUTPUT WILL BE SENT TO "LIST"
Enter name of SAGIS mapfile (CR)      (Be sure you enter a valid mapfile
                                      name.  No need to enter the .pol
                                      extension.)
oldmap (CR)                           (Enters the oldmap section of mapdraw.)
dump10.0 id [number or name] set 1 * (CR)    (Instructs mapdraw to write the
                                             specified mapid in an F10.0
                                             format to file "list".  "set 1 *"
                                             means sets 1 to the end (i.e.,
                                             all sets) in the mapid.)
dump10.0 id [number or name] set 1 * (CR)    (Writes another specified mapid
                                             to file "list".)
dump10.0 id [number or name] set 1 * (CR)    (Writes another specified mapid
                                             to file "list".)
Continue, as required, until all desired mapids are selected.
end (CR)
end (CR)
3. udcp -a list [DOS destination, e.g., c:list.txt] (CR)(Instructs UNIX to 
copy the file "list" to DOS.  "-a" means "ASCII".)
4. dos (CR) Moves from UNIX to DOS.)5.sagtoac (CR)(Starts up sagtoac.exe.)
[name of DOS file copied from UNIX, e.g., list.txt] (CR)
Ignore zeros in filenames.  Note that each SAGIS mapid becomes an AutoCAD .dxf 
file with a single drawing layer in it.
6.  Use AutoCAD to convert the .dxf files to .dwg files.  Merge  and use the 
.dwg files as desired.
