


exit <main>	     GRASS Reference Manual	      <main> exit



NAME
     exit - Exits the user from	the current GRASS session.

SYNOPSIS
     exit

DESCRIPTION
     The exit command ends the user's current GRASS session and
     returns the user to the directory in which	he was working
     prior to entering GRASS.  When the	user exits GRASS, he is
     asked whether he wishes to	save the files and data	stored
     under his current mapset, and (if maps are	present) whether
     the user wishes to	selectively remove map layers, before
     exiting the system.  By default, if the user presses RETURN
     without responding	to these questions, all	maps in	the
     user's current mapset are saved.  However,	because	such maps
     can consume much storage space on the computer, the user
     should remove any unneeded	files before exiting.  (The user
     can also remove data before attempting to exit GRASS using
     the g.remove command.)

     Before typing exit, the polite user should	remember to
     release the graphics display monitor (using the command
     d.mon -r) for use by other	GRASS users.  Otherwise, the
     display device may	be locked for use by the user, even
     though the	user has exited	GRASS, until another user runs
     d.mon and unlocks this monitor for	others'	use.

     Each time the user	re-enters GRASS, the variables described
     in	g.gisenv are re-set.  If the user wishes to change the
     mapset, location, or data base on which he	is working (i.e.,
     those affected by any GRASS programs running during the
     user's current GRASS session), the	user must exit GRASS and
     then re-enter GRASS and specify a different mapset,
     location, and/or data base	location on the	GRASS start-up
     page.  When the user re-enters GRASS, these variable
     settings (the current mapset, location, and data base) are
     set by default to those used in the user's	previous GRASS
     session, unless changed by	the user.

NOTES
     This program requires no command line arguments;  the user
     simply types exit on the command line to exit GRASS.

SEE ALSO
     d.mon, g.gisenv, g.remove









GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			1



