
Panel Library Release 			Version 9, April 1989

Welcome: 

This is the source release for the Panel Library, a graphical user
interface toolkit for the Silicon Graphics Iris family of
workstations.  The Library provides sliders, buttons, and other
mouse-sensitive actuators that can control and reflect the value of
variables inside your application.  Actuators are grouped on separate
windows that may be moved and reshaped.  You can designate functions
to be called when an actuator is selected with the mouse.  All Silicon
Graphics products, from the 2400 to the Multiprocessor GTX models, are
supported by the Library.

The Panel Library was written at NASA Ames Research Center by David A.
Tristram in support of the Numerical Aerodynamic Simulation (NAS)
Systems Division.  This was mainly possible because his managers,
Bruce Blaylock and Tom Lasinski, left him pretty much alone for about
a year and a half with a powerful workstation and a visionary office
mate, Creon Levit, who kept telling him how things really ought to be.
This author is deeply indebted to these people and the many other
talented engineers, scientists and administrators at NAS.

To Build the Library, cd to ./src and edit the file "Makefile.defs" to
select the compilation options for your system configuration.  Then
type "make all" to build the library, demos, and sample applications.
If others are going to be using the Library, after being sure the
destination directories are correct in Makefile.defs, you may want to
su to root and type "make install".

To learn about the Library, first run the demonstration programs in
./src/D.demos.  At one time, they were the only documentation provided
with the Library and remain one of the best ways to get started.  When
you are ready to go further, look at the complete applications ep and
cam in ./src/D.apps to see what the Library can really do.  Use the
manual in ./doc to help explain what's going on.  Later, when you are
feeling adventurous, take a look at the Panel Editor in ./src/D.pe.

The Panel Library is in the public domain, therefore it may be freely
copied and distributed.  It may not be resold or relicensed.
Modifications and additions to the software are to be made freely
available in source form.  Send modifications and additions and
requests for the most recent version to the address below.

	David A. Tristram
	ATTN: Panel Library
	MS 258-5
	NASA  Ames Research Center
	Moffett Field, California 94035

	Arpanet: dat@orville.nas.nasa.gov
		 415-694-4404
