Updated to GRASS FP by Roger Miller 3/2001

"Roger S. Miller" <rgrmill@rt66.com>

From his mail:
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2001 21:34:43 -0700                                           

One of the FORTRAN program (ppupdate.f) contains some logic that I think is
aimed at determining whether a depression is real or artificial.  It doesn't
fill holes that it determines to be real.  Possibly the NULL holes met the
requirements for a feature that the program would not fill.

I ran my test first with a raster map without null areas.  It worked on
cell, fcell and dcell maps, all of which gave approximately the same result. 
This raster map contains a number of shallow natural depressions (playas) --
features that ideally r.fill.dir would not fill in.  Unfortunately it did
fill them in.  That wasn't entirely a loss, though, because I found that I
could subtract the original map from the new, filled map and the difference
gave me a map of the depth of the depressions.  An interesting result.
                                                                                
I then filled a square area of the map with nulls, and ran it back through
r.fill.dir.  The FORTRAN programs generated errors (this is the expected
result) and the result was meaningless.  Then I replaced the null area with
zeros and reran r.fill.dir.  It ran without errors.  The big hole was not
filled but the playas were filled.  r.fill.dir also found and filled some
small holes along some drainage channels, thus integrating the watershed. 
This latter case is what r.fill.dir is supposed to do, so I guess we can say
that it works.
                                                                                
One thing I've found is that C (at least GNU C) does not correctly read
FORTRAN double precision numbers from formatted text.  FORTRAN prints double
precision numbers with a "D" indicating the exponent, as in 1.77785D-23. 
When a C program tries to read a double it looks for an "E" or "e" to
indicate the exponent.  So the FORTRAN double precision values are
misinterpreted by C programs.  This was a problem for r.fill.dir.  I had to
add a little FORTRAN subroutine that converted all the "D"s in the printed
double precision values to "E"s before the main program could reread the
results from the last of the FORTRAN programs.
                                                                                
This isn't just a problem with r.fill.dir.  r.in.dem died with a
segmentation fault when I tried to import a new dem.  Looking closer at the
program and at the USGS DEM standard I found that large parts of the header
are actually supposed to be FORTRAN double precision values.  I'm surprised
that r.in.dem works for anyone.  I guess once r.fill.dir is converted to C I
can turn to writing new input functions for r.in.dem.

Roger
