


imagery		     GRASS Reference Manual		  imagery



NAME
     imagery - Description of GRASS image processing functions.

IMAGE PROCESSING IN GRASS
     The following discussion is intended to provide a quick
     overview of image processing in GRASS.  Some concepts and
     some hints	are provided.  For a more complete discussion and
     description of image processing in	GRASS see GRASS	Tutorial:
     Image Processing.

EXTRACTING IMAGERY DATA	INTO A GRASS DATABASE
     Remotely sensed images are	captured for computer processing
     by	filtering radiation emanating from the image into various
     electromagnetic wavelength	bands, converting the overall
     intensity for each	band to	digital	format,	and storing the
     values on computer	compatible media such as magnetic tape.

     The GRASS programs	which extract image data from magnetic
     tape can read LANDSAT multi-spectral scanner (MSS)	data
     (i.tape.mss), LANDSAT thematic mapper (TM)	data,
     (i.tape.tm), and other formats, such as scanned aerial
     photography or SPOT satellite data	(i.tape.other).	 They
     extract the band data into	raster files in	a GRASS	database.
     Each band becomes a separate raster file, with standard
     GRASS map layer support, and can be displayed and analyzed
     just like any other raster	file.

UNREGISTERED DATA
     The band data extracted from tapes	are assumed to be
     unregistered data.	 This means that the GRASS software does
     not know the earth	coordinates for	pixels in the image.  The
     only coordinates known at the time	of extraction are the
     columns and the rows relative to the way the data was stored
     on	the tape.

     Data can only be extracted	into a database	which has an x,y
     coordinate	system,	and not	into a projected database (e.g.,
     a UTM database).  This is to prevent users	from mixing the
     unregistered data with registered data in the same	database.
     The GRASS system comes with the database imagery which is an
     x,y database.  New	databases can be created by users during
     GRASS startup.  See the g.help section on "Setting	Up a
     GRASS Database" for instructions on creating a new	database.

CELL HEADERS
     The cell headers for the band files in these x,y databases
     are set to	reflect	the rows and columns of	the extracted
     data.  The	north-south values represent the rows, and the
     east-west values represent	the columns.  The resolution of
     the unregistered data is set to 1.

     Note, however, that while the row numbers increase	from 1 to



GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			1






imagery		     GRASS Reference Manual		  imagery



     n from north to south, GRASS requires that	the values of the
     user's current geographic region decrease from north to
     south.  The solution adopted was to represent the rows with
     negative values (i.e., -1 to -n).	This allows them to
     decrease from north to south and, if the minus sign is
     ignored, to reflect the row numbers.

     The cell headers for the layers in	x,y databases are set so
     that the coordinates at the center	of each	pixel exactly
     reflect the row and column	for that pixel.	 The northern
     edge is set to 0.5	less than the first row, the southern
     edge 0.5 larger than the last row,	the west to 0.5	less than
     the first column, and the east to 0.5 larger than the last
     column.  When the image is	displayed on the graphics
     monitor, the d.where command can be used to report	row and
     column values.

     For example, suppose rows 100-500 and columns 200-800 are
     extracted.	 Then the cell headers for the extracted data
     will be given the following values:

	       north:	  -99.5
	       south:	 -500.5
	       west:	  199.5
	       east:	  800.5
	       ns res:	    1.0
	       ew res:	    1.0

REGION AND MASK
     Since the data layers are given essentially contrived cell
     headers, users must exercise extra	care when analyzing or
     displaying	unregistered images.  It is very easy for the
     user's GRASS region to have absolutely no relationship to
     the data he is trying to display.	This could happen when
     the region	is set for data	extracted from one tape, but the
     analysis is attempted on data extracted from another tape.
     A good habit to develop is	to set the region to exactly
     match one of the band files.  This	can be done using the
     GRASS g.region command.

     Another pitfall is	to have	a mask set to a	band file from
     one data set while	trying to read another.	 Even if the
     region is set properly, the data will appear to be	all no-
     data since	the mask will effectively knock	out any	data.  Be
     sure that the mask	is either set to a related data	layer or
     not set at	all.  See r.mask for information on setting and
     unsetting the mask.

     Please note that the tape extraction routines set your
     database region to	match the rows and columns of the data
     that is extracted.




GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			2






imagery		     GRASS Reference Manual		  imagery



GROUPS
     Since the band files are individual raster	files, it is
     necessary to have a mechanism to maintain a relationship
     between band files	from the same image as well as raster
     files derived from	the band files.	 The GRASS group data
     structure accomplishes this goal.	The group is essentially
     a list of names of	raster files that belong in the	group.
     For user convenience, groups are also created (and	updated)
     by	the tape extraction routines.  The tape	extraction
     programs ask the user to supply a group name as well as to
     specify the bands to be extracted.	 Suppose that the user
     extracts bands 1, 2, and 3	into a group called nhap.  Then
     the band files will become	the raster files nhap.1, nhap.2,
     and nhap.3	and the	group nhap will	list these 3 raster files
     as	members	of the group.

     Groups can	also be	created	and modified by	the user using
     the GRASS command i.group.

IMAGE REGISTRATION AND RECTIFICATION
     Image registration	and image rectification	is the process of
     associating earth coordinates with	pixels on the image and
     then converting the unregistered raster files to raster
     files in a	projected database.

     Image registration	(i.points) is applied to a group, rather
     than to individual	raster files.  The control points are
     stored in the group, allowing all related band files to be
     registered	in one step rather than	individually.

     Image rectification (i.rectify) is	applied	to individual
     raster files, with	the control points for the group used to
     control the rectification and the group target (i.target)
     used to specify the database where	the rectified layer will
     live.

IMAGE CLASSIFICATION
     Image classification methods process all or a subset of the
     band files	as a unit. Spectral signatures for the image are
     generated (i.cluster) and then used to produce a landcover
     map (i.maxlik).

     The signatures must be associated only with the raster files
     actually used in the analysis. This means that with a group
     subgroups must be created (i.group) which list the	band
     files to be grouped for classification purposes.  The
     signatures	are stored with	the subgroup.

     Note that multiple	subroups can be	created	within a group.
     This allows different classifications to be run with
     different combinations of band files.




GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			3






imagery		     GRASS Reference Manual		  imagery



     Also note that raster files produced by the classification
     process (i.maxlik)	are automatically listed as part of the
     group.

RECTIFIED VS. UNRECTIFIED ANALYSIS
     There are two possible routes for processing image	data.
     The first is to register the group	(i.points), perform the
     analyses on the unrectified band data (i.maxlik), and then
     rectify the results (i.rectify).  The second is to	register
     the group (i.points), rectify the band data (i.rectify),
     then run analyses on the rectified	band data in the target
     location (i.rectify).  Both routes	are permissible	in GRASS.
     Users will	most likely prefer the first.  The second route
     requires leaving GRASS and	re-running GRASS under the target
     location.	It also	will require that a group be created to
     hold the rectified	band files since i.rectify does	not
     create or modify groups.  Also, spatial filtering may not be
     as	effective on rectified data since the rectification of
     the data requires resampling the original data.

SEE ALSO
     GRASS Tutorial: Image Processing

     d.where, g.region,	i.cluster, i.group, i.maxlik, i.points,
     i.rectify,	i.tape.other, i.tape.mss, i.tape.tm, i.target,
     r.mask

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army	Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory

























GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			4



