


paint		     GRASS Reference Manual		    paint



NAME
     paint - Description of hardcopy color output system for
     GRASS.

INTRODUCTION
     The paint system allows the user to produce color hardcopy
     maps of vector, raster, and sites file data at any	scale.
     For a discussion of the GRASS paint functions, see	the
     manual entries for	p.chart, p.colors, p.icons, p.labels,
     p.map, p.screen, and p.select.

PAINT DEVICES
     The GRASS paint system supports multiple color printers
     using a device driver concept.  The paint (p.) functions
     listed above send graphics	requests to device-dependent
     paint drivers.  These drivers translate the application
     requests into device-dependent requests to	produce	hardcopy
     maps.

INSTALLING A PAINT DRIVER
     A number of paint drivers have been distributed with GRASS.
     The installation of a driver is a 2 step process.	The first
     involves identifying the driver(s)	which correspond to
     printer(s)	connected to your system and compiling those
     drivers.  The second involves telling each	driver which i/o
     port it is	to use.


     1	The source code	for the	drivers	lives in
	$GISBASE/../src/paint/Drivers (The variable GISBASE
	refers to the directory	in which GRASS is installed on
	your system.)

	The selection and compilation of the drivers is	done when
	GRASS is compiled as a whole.

     2	The port configuration is handled using	the UNIX ln
	command.

	Each driver expects to send its	output to /dev/driver.
	For example, the tek4695 driver	expects	to find	a
	tektronix 4695 (or 4696) printer on /dev/tek4695.

	Suppose	the printer is actually	on /dev/tty10.	Then, a
	link named /dev/tek4695	is made	to /dev/tty10:

	       ln /dev/tty10 /dev/tek4695

NOTES
     There are 2 drivers which do not use i/o ports.  One is the
     preview driver, which sends its output to the graphics
     screen instead of a hardcopy printer.  This driver	is very



GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			1






paint		     GRASS Reference Manual		    paint



     handy and should definitely be compiled on	your system.

     The other is the null driver, which is used for debugging
     purposes and probably should not be compiled on your system.

     If	you compile either of these drivers, you shouldn't create
     a /dev file for them.

SEE ALSO
     p.chart, p.colors,	p.icons, p.labels, p.map, p.screen, and
     p.select

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army	Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory








































GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			2



