


digit(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              digit(1)



NAME
     digit - A menu-driven, highly interactive map development
     tool used for digitizing, editing, labeling and converting
     vector data to form.
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     digit

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool digit is a menu-driven, highly interactive
     map development tool used for inputting analog map data into
     a GRASS vector format.  digit contains tools for digitizing,
     editing, labeling, windowing and converting the vector data
     to GRASS format.

FEATURES
     digit was written to optimize digitizing speed and
     performance.  It has a convenient graphic display format and
     very convenient windowing capabilities.  Features are
     color-coded for ease of identification and verification.
     Different color schemes may be chosen to customize a
     digitizing session.
     Area, line and point features may be digitized in both
     "stream" and "point" modes.  Both a mouse and a digitizer
     may be used to preform windowing functions.  Labeling and
     editing are done from within digit, rather than through a
     separate set of programs.
     digit has capabilities to convert vector to GRASS form, to
     overlay already created vector onto the feature being
     digitized, and set a multitude of parameters to customize a
     digitizing session.
     digit may be used with or without a digitizer.  Many options
     are available if no digitizer is used.
     All options available within digit are contained within ten
     menus.  Movement from menu to menu is done by chosing the
     movement options specified at the bottom of each menu.

STRUCTURE
     digit consists of two parts: an initialization procedure,
     and a multiple menu-driven environment.
     1) The initialization procedure involves choosing a
     digitizer, choosing a to digitize and, if needed,
     registering a map to the digitizing surface.
     2) The second part of digit is a multiple menu environment
     in which digitizing, editing, labeling, and other options
     are available.  It is within this second portion of digit
     that all vector creation occurs.

SEE ALSO
     GRASS Tutorial: digit; Its Use and Its Features
     import.to.vect[1], support.vect[1], a.b.vect[1],



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






digit(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              digit(1)



     b.a.vect[1], vect.to.cell[1]

AUTHORS
     David Gerdes, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory
     Mike Higgins, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory
















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



