


display(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            display(1)



NAME
     display - Tool for viewing maps and producing final map
     products
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     display

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool display is used to display maps on a graphics
     monitor and prepare final map products for printing.  The D
     language program Dscreen should be run by the user before
     each run of display to prepare the screen for graphics.
     After invoking the command display, the DISPLAY MAIN MENU
     appears on the monitor.  Options in this and subsequent
     display menus are selected through use of the pointing
     device (mouse).  When the mouse cursor is over the desired
     menu selection, the user simply presses any button on the
     mouse.  In the DISPLAY MAIN MENU, the user is given the
     choice of selecting one of the following options:

     DISPLAY MAIN MENU
     map display
     digitize
     window
     hide menu for 10 seconds
     QUIT

     Selection of the map display option leads to the
     presentation of the DISPLAY MAP MENU below:

     DISPLAY MAP MENU
     cell map       2-d
     vect map       2-d
     label file     2-d
     site map       2-d
     scale display  2-d
     measurements   2-d
     color interact
     legend
     cell map       3-d
     RETURN


     Several of the DISPLAY MAP MENU choices shown above are
     essentially equivalent to D language commands.  However, in
     many cases, the D commands give the user greater flexibility
     and make available more options than are available through
     the display menus.  For example, the label file option runs
     the Dlabel command using defaults.  Users running Dlabel
     directly from the command line have the choice of
     stipulating specific label background and text colors, as



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






display(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            display(1)



     well as text sizes and font types.  Users running the label
     file option through display cannot specify these options;
     instead, default values are used (see Dlabel(2D) for default
     values used).
     Similarly, the cell map 2-d option available through display
     runs like the D command Dcell(2D);  the vect map 2-d option
     is similar to the Dvect(2D) command; the site map 2-d option
     runs like the scale display 2-d option runs Dscale(2D) using
     default values; the measurements 2-d option runs
     Dmeasure(2D); the color interact option presents the same
     menu that d.colors does; the legend option runs Dlegend(2D)
     using default values; and the cell map 3-d option presents
     the same menu as is presented by d.3d(1).  The display tool
     is best learned by playing with its options.  Refer to the
     individual D and d commands discussed above for a detailed
     examination of these tools.  A brief explanation of DISPLAY
     MAP MENU options follows:

     Cell Map 2-d - Displays a You will be asked for the name of
     the cell you wish to display.  On the monitor the map
     legend, title, location, cell size, the GRASS logo, and a
     reduced version of the entire indicating the of the current
     window will also be shown, in small surrounding the in which
     the cell is displayed.

     Vect Map 2-d - Vector versions of some maps may be available
     for use as base map overlays.  Select the vect map 2-d
     option.  You will then be prompted for the vector map
     desired as a line overlay.  You are also given a choice of
     colors in which vectors will be displayed.

     Label File 2-d - Labels are placed on the map using the
     label file 2-d option.  You are asked to locate where the
     label is to be placed using the mouse, and are then prompted
     to type in the desired text.  Be careful with this option as
     labels are not removable.

     Site Map 2-d - This option allows the user to display on the
     monitor.  You will be asked for the name of the site you
     wish to display.

     Scale Display 2-d - This option will cause a map scale to be
     placed at the top of the map currently displayed there.

     Measurements 2-d - Use of this option will allow you to draw
     lines on the screen, and calculate their lengths and areas.

     Color Interact - This option will allow the user to select
     or modify a color table to be associated with the displayed
     (see d.colors(1) for specific options).  If the user saves
     this color table, it will be associated with the in
     subsequent runs of display and paint(1).



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






display(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            display(1)



     Legend - This option will display a legend in a to the left
     of the displayed Using the mouse the user can opt to display
     a legend with, or without, text.

     Cell Map 3-d - Use of this option will provide the user with
     a three-dimensional view of the map area bounded by the
     current Default inputs are provided to the user;  however,
     the user can alter these inputs.

     RETURN - will cause you to exit the DISPLAY MAP MENU, and
     return to the DISPLAY MAIN MENU.


     From the DISPLAY MAIN MENU, the user can select the digitize
     option.  This option leads the user to the same mouse button
     menu provided by the d.digit command, and allows the
     performance of on-screen digitizing.  The user is asked
     whether a line, area, or circle is to be drawn, and the
     category to be associated with the feature. By drawing a
     series of such features the user can repair identify areas
     of interest, interpret aerial photographs and satellite
     images, or simply draw graphics for advertisement.  When
     drawing is completed, a cell map based on the user's
     instructions is generated.  It is available for use as a
     mask, in analyses, and for display.


     The window option is also available from the DISPLAY MAIN
     MENU.  Using the mouse, the user can choose to zoom in on a
     portion of the displayed cell to create a smaller window.
     Once the user has defined the corners of this area using the
     mouse, the smaller area is enlarged and replotted on the
     screen.  The user can similarly choose to zoom out.  In this
     case, the user uses the mouse to encompass that portion of
     the reduced map that the user wishes to make the current
     window and display in the center of the screen.  The larger
     map is then replotted and displayed.  Finally, the user can
     enter from the keyboard using the GRASS command window. This
     is done by selecting the type coordinates.ft R  option.


     The main menu also offers the user the option of hiding the
     main menu for ten seconds (hide menu for 10 seconds).
     Finally, to exit display, the user may select the QUIT
     option with the mouse.  If selected, the user is asked
     whether this is really desired.

NOTES
     The display command must be run in conjunction with a
     program which converts the GRASS graphics commands generated
     by display, to the graphics commands that the current device
     understands.  This device will almost always be a graphics



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3






display(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            display(1)



     monitor.  On most systems the user is required to start up
     this other program separately from (and prior to) display.
     In such cases, a locally-defined program, usually "monitor",
     is used (see your GRASS manager).  (For example, on MASSCOMP
     machines, the monitor program must be running in the
     foreground on the graphics monitor.  On SUN machines, the
     monitor program can be started from any terminal and run in
     the background.)

     If you are running the quick-access (non-menu) version of
     GRASS (accessed through the command GRASS3), you may use the
     D language commands Dnew and Dchoose to create and choose a
     smaller on the graphics for the display program to use.

NOTES
     The tool display should be phased out in favor of the
     various D language commands.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO(2D)               Introduction to the GRASS D tools

     Dcell(2D)                To display a cell
     in the current
     d.colors(1)              To change the color table associated with a
     d.digit(1)               On-screen digitizer
     d.window(1)              Interactive
     management program
     monitor(1)               To manage control of a graphics monitor
     paint(1)                 Interface to color hardcopy output
     d.3d(1)                  Interactive 3-d
     display program
     Dlabel(2D)               To display a label in the current
     Dlegend(2D)              To display a
     legend in the current
     Dmeasure(2D)             To measure length and area
     Dscale(2D)               To display a map scale in the current
     Dvect(2D)                To overlay the contents of the current
     with a vector
     D3d(2D)                  3-d
     display program

AUTHOR
     James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory











GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         4



