


grow(1)              GRASS Reference Manual               grow(1)



NAME
     grow - Generate output with contiguous areas grown by one
     (GRASS Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     grow

DESCRIPTION
     Grow generates an output from the input by adding one cell
     around the perimeter of areas.  An area consists of any
     contiguous clump of cells with non-zero category values.  No
     distinction is made between differing category values within
     an area.  Rather, a border is grown around the outside of
     the entire contiguous set of non-zero cells.

     The output will not go outside of the current window.  Thus,
     if a contiguous area in the input extends to the edge of the
     current window, no new border cells can be added to that
     side of the area.

     Growth around a rectangular area in the input will occur
     straight out from each edge, but not diagonally from the
     corners of the rectangle.  Thus, the "grown" border area
     will contain lines along the edge of the original rectangle,
     but the corners of the border will not be squared off.
     Instead, the lines of the border which go along each side of
     the original rectangle will touch only at the corners of the
     cells at the end of each line.

     The user is given the option of creating an output which is
     completely zero-one, regardless of category values in the
     input In this case, all cells with a non-zero value in the
     input are assigned to category 1 in the output If the user
     does not choose this option, these cells will retain their
     original non-zero category value.  In either case, all cells
     whose category value is changed from 0 during the growing
     process are given a category value of 1.

     The grow command is useful in representing the boundary of
     one or more areas. this case, the zero-one output option
     should NOT be used. Then the input can be subtracted from
     the output using the Gmapcalc command.  All original will be
     subtracted out, leaving the boundary areas only.  This
     resulting zero-one boundary depiction can be displayed over
     other related using Doverlay.

NOTES
     If the resolution of the current window does not agree with
     the resolution of the input unintended resampling of the
     original may occur.  The user should be sure that the
     current window is set properly.




GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






grow(1)              GRASS Reference Manual               grow(1)



SEE ALSO
     Ggrow[2G]

AUTHOR
     Marjorie Larson, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory

















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



