


INTRO(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              INTRO(1)



NAME
     Introduction to GRASS-GRID programs
     (GRASS-GRID Tool Overview)

DESCRIPTION
     Here are listed the currently running programs associated
     with the Geographical Resources Analysis Support System's
     (GRASS) grid cell analysis subsystem (GRASS-GRID).  Provided
     are tools for overlaying, analyzing and displaying grid cell
     databases.  Map products can be printed in full color on an
     ink-jet printer.  Arc-node data is also provided for display
     purposes.  Brief descriptions of GRASS-GRID tools follow:

Information
     help - The on-line help facility.

     manual - Provides access to the on-line GRASS REFERENCE
     MANUAL.

Grid Cell Data Analysis
     coin -         Coincident tabulation.  Charts the mutual
                    occurrences of all categories from one cell
                    map with all categories of another cell map.

     combine -      Map overlay tool which allows combinations of
                    map categories from several maps.  Allows
                    combinations using AND, OR, NOT, GROUP
                    operators.  Created maps can be overlain
                    and/or saved with the commands NAME, COVER,
                    and OVER.

     weight -       Map overlay tool which allows map descriptive
                    categories to be assigned numeric values
                    (weights).  The different values associated
                    with a given cell in the user's selected map
                    layers are summed or multiplied to calculate
                    that cell's total value.  Values are often
                    assigned such that a higher numeric value
                    indicates higher suitability for some user-
                    defined purpose.

     neighbors -    An interactive program to enhance or subdue
                    data values by modifying a data value based
                    on the values occurring in surrounding cells.
                    Results can contain the mode, min, max,
                    average, diversity, or interspersion factor
                    of the area surrounding each cell.

     distance -     Generates distance-from maps based on
                    existing map layers.  New maps contain
                    information about distances from each "cell"
                    to the closest cell containing a category



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






INTRO(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              INTRO(1)



                    description of your choice.

Graphics
     display -      Multipurpose graphics monitor program for
                    displaying map layers.  Map editing functions
                    include vector map overlays, labeling, and
                    drawing.

     paint  -       General purpose access to the color ink-jet
                    printer. Options allow the user to produce a
                    hardcopy map from the data cell files (the
                    map option) and to modify the color table
                    (the colors option), as well as to label
                    maps, etc.

     d.3d -         Displays a grid cell file in three-
                    dimensional perspective.  User chooses
                    viewing location, field of view, and file to
                    use for elevation coordinates.

     d.his -        Hue, Intensity, Saturation.  Allows up to
                    three maps to be combined into one
                    multicolored and shaded map for display.

New Map Generation
     mask -         Map generation tool which creates a map
                    reflecting the contents of areas within one
                    map corresponding to those areas where the
                    user-specified contents occur in another map
                    (e.g., Soils which occur in areas where the
                    geology is of a specific type).

     distance -     Generates distance-from maps based on
                    existing map layers.  New maps contain
                    information about distances from each "cell"
                    to the closest cell containing a category
                    description of your choice.

     reclass -      Tool which allows the user to recategorize
                    the categories of an existing cell file map
                    while retaining the original layer.  This
                    program stores recategorizations in reclass
                    conversion tables which reference the
                    original maps.

Site information
     sites -        Point site information and analysis tool.

Information About Data
     report -       Lists area statistics for map layers.
                    Statistics for a map layer correspond to an
                    area of interest defined by the current



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






INTRO(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              INTRO(1)



                    window and mask.  For each category, total
                    area is given in one or more units of #cells,
                    %cover including/excluding no data cells,
                    acres, hectares, sq.  kms and sq. miles.  The
                    user can specify the units in which reports
                    are made.

     describe -     Lists data values present in user-chosen map
                    layers.

     cell.stats -   Lists area statistics for map layers.  For
                    each category, it provides the total area in
                    acres, hectares, and sq. miles.

     layer.info -   Lists detailed information about a chosen map
                    including its size, source, creation date,
                    creator, etc.

Data Lists
     list -         Lists currently available "cell", "vector",
                    and "site" maps.

Miscellaneous
     support -      This capability allows modification/editing
                    of the grid cell support files which describe
                    the coordinates, the categories, the history
                    and the colors associated with it.

     window -       Allows users to define and request windows.
                    Windows are rectangular geographical areas
                    within the available database space.  Windows
                    also define the east-west and north-south
                    resolution of the grid cells.

     mask -         Users have the option to apply masks to their
                    analyses.  A mask defines areas within the
                    current rectangular window that are of
                    interest.  One or more categories from any
                    available grid cell map can define a mask.
                    Sample masks that a user might define
                    include:  All Forested Areas, Roads, Water
                    and Swamps, Training Areas 1 through 6 and 8,
                    etc.

     mapmask -      Provides the user with the capability to
                    define specific areas of interest within a
                    map layer.  These can be specified using
                    regular geometric shapes, circles, or strings
                    of corner coordinates.

     mapsets -      Users define which mapsets they wish to have
                    available to them in the current session.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3






INTRO(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              INTRO(1)



     compress/decompress -
                    Changes format of cell maps to and from a
                    compressed format.  Simple maps can be
                    compressed up to 99%.  Complex maps like
                    images and elevation may actually increase in
                    size.  All GRASS programs work automatically
                    with both formats.

     remove -       Grid cell files and their support files can
                    be removed from the current mapset using this
                    tool.

     rename -       Grid cell files in the current mapset are
                    renamed.

     gisenv -       Prints the current environment, or set of
                    variables, associated with the user's current
                    GRASS session.





































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         4



