


mapmask(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            mapmask(1)



NAME
     mapmask - Create cell masks based on user-specified polygons
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     mapmask

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool mapmask provides the user with the capability
     of defining specific areas of interest within a These can be
     specified using regular geometric shapes, circles, or
     strings of corner coordinates.  The user has the choice of
     creating a generic 1/0 and/or a cookie cutter A generic has
     cell of 1 within the areas of interest;  all other cells
     contain category 0.  A cookie cutter retains original
     category values from a source within the areas of interest.

     The effectiveness of an analysis is often dependent upon the
     ability to clearly define the exact data to be studied, and
     to limit the data to this definition.  In geographic
     analysis, a common problem is found in trying to look at
     specific areas, which seldom correspond to mapped areas, or
     even to rectangles.  It is important for the user both to be
     able to define exact areas of interest for specific analyses
     and to be able to quickly define general areas for an
     overview.

     Mapmask gives the user the tools to meet these needs quickly
     and easily.

     The user can create two types of

         1) A generic 1/0 can be created. Cells within the areas
            of interest are coded with 1; cells outside the area
            are coded with 0.  This type of mask can be used  to
            mask  sections  of  different for use in complicated
            analyses.

         2) A cookie-cutter can also be created.  This  type  of
            mask  is  one that retains the data from a source in
            the areas specified by the user.  It  cannot  always
            be masked with other

         3) The user also has the option of creating both  types
            of


     The user of  mapmask  has  several  options  available  when
     defining areas of interest:

         1) The user may choose to define a circle as an area of
            interest,  specifying  the center (easting/northing)



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






mapmask(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            mapmask(1)



            and radius of the circle.

         2) The user may choose to define a regular  polygon  as
            an   area   of   interest,   specifying  the  center
            (easting/northing) and  radius  of  a  circle  which
            circumscribes  the  polygon  and the number of sides
            the polygon will have.

         3a) The user may choose to define a specific  polygonal
            area,  specifying the number of edges the area is to
            have (up to 50) and the coordinates for each  corner
            of  the area.  In this case, the corners of the area
            must be entered in a  clockwise  order,  though  any
            corner can be entered first.

         3b) The user may choose to define a specific  polygonal
            area, specifying a file in which the coordinates for
            the corner points have previously been entered.   In
            this  case,  the  coordinates  must be arranged such
            that there is one coordinate pair per line, with the
            northing in the first column, and the easting in the
            second.

     Note: These four options apply to each area of interest that
     is designated.  Therefore, a user could have one circle, one
     regular hexagon, and a specific polygonal area of interest
     all within one

AUTHOR
     Michael O'Shea, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory
























GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



