


mapsets(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            mapsets(1)



NAME
     mapsets - Choose mapsets to be accessed
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     mapsets

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool mapsets is an interactive program which
     allows users to choose which of the available mapsets they
     would like to access during the current GRASS session.

     A mapset is a distinct set of which a user has created.  At
     the outset of every GRASS session, the user identifies a
     mapset that is to be the current mapset which will be used
     to save created during that session.  can be added to and
     deleted from this chosen mapset.

     Usually, there are other mapsets created by the user or
     other users that will contain of interest which the user
     would also like to access.  This program, mapsets, allows
     the user to select which of these other mapsets to which the
     user would like access.

     The mapsets command shows the user which mapsets that user
     currently has access to, and in what order they will be
     accessed.  All available mapsets are listed and the user is
     given the opportunity to choose a new mapset search order by
     using mapset names or numbers.

     This search order (also known as the mapset search path)
     specifies where and in what order GRASS will search for When
     the user enters the name of a map layer in response to a
     GRASS program prompt, the first mapset in the list will be
     scanned for the If the name is found in this mapset, it is
     used. If the name is not found in the first mapset listed in
     the search path, the next mapset in the list is scanned, and
     so on.  It is common for a user to have the special mapset
     PERMANENT included in the mapset search path.  Often, other
     mapsets which contain sets of interpreted will be likewise
     included.  Suppose, for example, that the mapset Soil_Maps
     contains interpreted soils to which the user wants access.
     The mapset Soil_Maps should then be included in the user's
     search path variable.

     The mapset search path is saved as part of the current
     mapset.  When the user works in that mapset at a later date
     the previously saved mapset search path will be used.

NOTES
     Although the user may access (and copy) in another's mapset,
     the user can only modify in mapsets owned by that user.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






mapsets(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            mapsets(1)



SEE ALSO
     Gmapsets[2G]

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory

















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



