


monitor(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            monitor(1)



NAME
     monitor - To establish and control use of a graphics monitor
     through menus
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     monitor

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool monitor allows the user to start, select,
     list, query the status of, relinquish control of, and stop,
     available graphics monitors.  Through a series of menus,
     monitor can perform all of the functions performed
     individually by the GRASS D monitor commands (see the SEE
     ALSO section below for a list of these commands).

     When the user enters the command monitor, the below menu
     appears on the screen:

          Making sure that the graphics monitor is running:

            1      start a graphics monitor
            2      stop a graphics monitor
            3      list the current status for graphics monitors

          Choosing a graphics monitor for your graphics:

            4      select a graphics device for output
            5      relinquish control of the graphics device
                   (let someone else use it)
                   (option 5 appears only after selection of a monitor)

          help     print a help message
          RETURN   quit


     These options perform the following functions:

     1   Start a user-specified monitor program running in the
         background (unseen by the user).  The desired monitor
         should be started once and need not be restarted unless
         it is terminated (option 2) for some reason.  A monitor
         may continue to run for any length of time, even when no
         GRASS session is being run.

     2   Stop (terminate) a monitor program.  Sometimes the
         monitor program needs to be terminated.  Choosing this
         option will terminate a specified monitor.

     3   A monitor has three different types of status: monitor
         program not loaded, monitor idle, and monitor assigned
         to someone.  The status option will list the status of



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






monitor(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            monitor(1)



         each monitor connected to the system.


     4   Once a monitor program has been started, it sits idle
         until the monitor is selected by someone.  In order to
         use (direct graphics output to) an idle monitor, the
         user must select that monitor for use with this option.

     5   After a user selects the monitor, only that user may
         relinquish it for use by someone else from within the
         monitor program.  The person who selected the monitor
         may deselect (relinquish) it through use of this option.
         This menu option only appears to the person who has
         selected the monitor.

     You may choose multiple options within the monitor program.
     If you need help, help will print out a help message.  To
     leave the monitor menu, enter <RETURN>.

NOTES
     The user that selected the monitor is the only one capable
     of releasing control of the monitor for use by another
     through the monitor program.  However, the command-line
     driven GRASS tool Drelease.mon[2D] allows anyone to release
     the monitor, whether or not they have control of that
     monitor.
     The monitor program can regulate control of graphics both in
     systems using multiple monitors and in systems using a
     single graphics monitor.

SEE ALSO
     DINTRO(2D)         Introduction to D tools

     monitorcap(5)      driver file format
     Dlist.mon(2D)      Lists all GRASS driver
                        programs (monitors)
     Drelease.mon(2D)   Relinquishes control of
                        a graphics
     Dselect.mon(2D)    Selects a graphics for
                        output
     Dstart.mon(2D)     Loads graphics driver
                        program (i.e., starts
                        the monitor)
     Dstatus.mon(2D)    Lists the status of all
                        GRASS driver programs
     Dstop.mon(2D)      Terminates graphics
                        driver program
     Dwhich.mon(2D)     States which is
                        currently selected for
                        output





GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






monitor(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            monitor(1)



AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory




















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3



