


paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



NAME
     paint - Interface to color hardcopy output.

SYNOPSIS
     paint
     (Available through grass3 menu)

DESCRIPTION
     The paint program is an interface to routines which perform
     various functions related to producing a hardcopy map on
     your system's color printer.  (Note that the user must first
     have selected a printer before a map can be painted. See the
     paint select function below or the Pselect[2P] manual entry
     for further information on the selection of printers.)

     The user will be presented the following menu and asked to
     select one of the the following functions:

        map      (to paint a map)
        chart    (to paint the printer color chart)
        colors   (to modify the color table for a cell map)
        icons    (to create or modify an icon file for paint map)
        labels   (to create or modify a labels file for paint map)
        select   (to select a paint output device)

        exit     (to exit from paint)


PAINT MAP
     This function produces a hardcopy color map of a user-
     specified The user will be asked for the following (in
     illustration, example inputs have been provided):

     CELL
     Do you want to paint a cell map? (y/n) y

          Enter the name of an existing cell map
          Enter list for a list of existing cell maps
          Enter list -f for a list with titles
          Hit RETURN to cancel request
          > soils

     (If no cell is requested, a completely white map will be
     produced. It can be useful to select no cell in order to get
     a white background for vector, site or label images.)










GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



     COLORMODE
     select the method for coloring the map

          1.  normal map
          2.  image (Landsat, NHAP, etc.)
          > 1

     (Paint has two different ways to color the raster output.
     The normal method is good for true maps, like soils. The
     image method is good for Landsat scenes, NHAP photos, etc.,
     since it blends colors across pixels to give a more
     "picture-like" output.)

     VECTOR
     Do you want to paint any vector maps? (y/n) y

          Enter the name of an existing vector map
          Enter list for a list of existing vector maps
          Hit RETURN to cancel request
          > roads

          select a color for vectormap: red

          enter line width for vectormap: 3

          do you want to paint any more vector maps? (y/n) n

     SITES
     Do you want to paint any site maps? (y/n) y

          Enter the name of an existing site maps
          Enter list for a list of existing site maps
          Hit RETURN to cancel request
          > windmills

          select a color for sitemap: blue

          please enter an icon file for sitemap
          Enter list for a list of existing icon files
          Hit RETURN to select DEFAULT icon
          > windmills (icons are created by user, see PAINT ICONS below)

          enter icon size: 3 (means 3X larger than icon in icon file)

          should the site labels be printed as well? (y/n) n

          do you want to paint any more site maps? (y/n) n








GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



     LABELS
     Do you want to paint any labels files? (y/n) y

          Enter the name of an existing labels file
          Enter list for a list of existing labels files
          Hit RETURN to cancel request
          > town.names

          do you want to paint any more labels files? (y/n) n

     (A label file is created by paint labels (see below) and
     contains text that will appear on the image.)

     SCALE
     enter map scale: 1panel

          The scale can be selected either as:
          1) a relative ratio, e.g., 1:25000
          2) an absolute width of the printed image, e.g., 10 inches.
          3) the number of printed paper panels, e.g., 3 panels.
          4) the number of miles per inch, e.g., 1 inch equals 4 miles.
          (RETURN alone will give help for entering the scale.)

     GRID
     would you like a coordinate grid? (y/n) y

          enter grid spacing in meters: 1000

          would you like the grid numbered? (y/n) y

     (Grid lines are painted in black and are numbered (if
     desired) every line with black numbers.)

     LEGEND
     would you like a full color table included in the legend? (y/n) y

     do you have any comments to be included in the legend? (y/n) y
     enter comments line by line. type end when complete.
     if you have comments in a file, type  <filename
     > This is a comment.
     > end

     (The color table will display the colors for each category
     of a cell and the category description. Comments are text
     which is to appear in the legend (after the last panel).
     Comments may be typed in directly or by submitting a
     previously prepared UNIX file.)


PAINT CHART
     This function allows the user to paint the colors that the
     current selected printer is capable of generating along with



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3






paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



     the (device-dependent) number associated with each color.
     This function is useful for the paint colors function of
     paint.

PAINT COLORS
     This function allows the user to modify a color table for a
     assigning colors to the categories in the based on printer
     color numbers (instead of red, green, blue percentages).

     The user will need to have the printer color chart available
     to properly select the colors (see paint chart above).

     The colors function allows the user to exercise perfect
     control over the colors which appear in the hardcopy image.

PAINT LABELS
     This function allows the user to create (and modify) text
     labels for use with the paint map, Pmap[2P], and
     Dpaint.labels[2D] functions.  The labels files are kept in
     the current mapset. Each label has components which
     determine the text, the location of the text on the image,
     its size, and the background for the text. The user will be
     prompted for these components as follows:

     TEXT: Up to four lines of text.  Lines in multiple line
     labels will appear one above the next.

     SKIP: yes/no. If no, label will be printed.  If yes, the
     label will be retained in the file but not printed.

     LOCATION: Determines where the text will be located on the
     image.  The user specifies the easting and northing, and
     (optionally) specifies a vertical and horizontal offset (in
     printer pixels) from the specified easting/northing. (The
     vertical offset will shift the location to the south if
     positive, north if negative. The horizontal offset will
     shift the location east if positive, west if negative.)
     These offsets are provided to allow finer placement of
     labels.

     PLACEMENT: Determines which part of the label to which the
     location refers.  This may be specified as:

        lower left     (lower left corner of the text)
        lower right    (lower right corner of the text)
        lower center   (bottom center of the text)

        upper left     (upper left corner of the text)
        upper right    (upper right corner of the text)
        upper center   (top center of the text)

        center         (center of the text)



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         4






paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



     FONT: This specifies the font to use. The following fonts
     are available:

        cyrilc gothgbt gothgrt gothitt greekc greekcs greekp
        greeks italicc italiccs italict romanc romancs romand
        romans romant scriptc scripts

     The word standard can be used to specify the default font
     (which is romans).

     TEXT SIZE: This determines the size of the letters. The size
     specifies the vertical height of the letters in meters on
     the ground. Thus text will grow or shrink depending on the
     scale at which the map is drawn.

     TEXT COLOR: This selects the text color.  This color can be
     specified in one of four ways:

     1) By color name:
        aqua black blue brown cyan gray green grey indigo
        magenta orange purple red violet white yellow

     2) As red, green, blue percentages.  for example: .5 .4 .7
        (This form is not supported by Dpaint.labels[2D].)

     3) By printer color number to get the exact printer color.
        (This form is not supported by Dpaint.labels[2D].)

     4) Specify none to suppress the lettering.

     WIDTH: This determines the line thickness of the letters.
     The normal text width should be set to 1.  Larger numbers
     can be used to simulate bold face. (Dpaint.labels[2D]
     ignores this value and always uses 1.)

     HIGHLIGHT COLOR: The text can be highlighted in another
     color so that it appears to be in two colors. The text is
     drawn first in this color at a wider line width, and then
     redrawn in the text color at the regular line width.
     Specify none for no highlight.  (See TEXT COLOR above for a
     list of colors).

     HIGHLIGHT WIDTH: Specifies how far from the text lines (in
     pixels) the highlight color should extend.

     BACKGROUND COLOR: Text may be boxed in a solid color by
     specifying a background color.  Specify none for no
     background.  (See TEXT COLOR above for a list of colors).

     OPAQUE TO VECTORS: yes/no. This field only has meaning if a
     background color is selected.  yes will prevent vector lines
     from entering the background.  no will allow vector lines to



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         5






paint(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              paint(1)



     enter the background.

     BORDER COLOR: Select a color for the border around the
     background.  Specify none to suppress the border.  (See TEXT
     COLOR above for a list of colors).

PAINT ICONS
     Allows the user to create and maintain icons which are used
     by the paint map function and Pmap[2P] command to depict

PAINT SELECT
     The paint system supports multiple color printers.  Before
     the user can paint anything, the user must select an output
     device (even if the system has only one paint device).  The
     select option will show the user the available devices,
     which device (if any) is currently selected, and ask the
     user to select a device.  For example, if the user currently
     does not have a device selected, the below response will
     appear:

          No PAINTER currently selected

          Available PAINTERS

          abc xyz

          Select a driver, or hit RETURN to quit>

     If the user has already selected a device, but invokes the
     paint select option in order to alter the selection of
     devices, the below response will appear:

          Currently selected PAINTER: xyz

          Available PAINTERS

          abc xyz

          Hit RETURN to continue, or select new driver>

SEE ALSO
     Dpaint.labels[2D]   To display labels generated by paint
     Pmap[2P]            Command language interface to the paint system
     Pselect[2P]         To select a printer for paint output

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory







GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         6



