


random(1)            GRASS Reference Manual             random(1)



NAME
     random - Create a and containing random locations

SYNOPSIS
     random

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool random allows the user to create a and a
     containing locations which have been determined randomly.
     The general region in which to generate these random
     locations is determined by the current GRASS window and
     mask.  The locations will fall within non-zero areas on a
     current specified by the user.  The user may specify the
     quantity of random locations to be generated either as an
     absolute number (e.g., 10), or as a percentage of the cell
     map's total area (e.g., 10%, or 3.05%). If specified as a
     percentage of total size, the number of random locations
     will be set equal to the number of cells contained within
     that percentage of the Percentages under one percent may be
     specified using a decimal point.  (Note that choosing 1% of
     a cell map's cells produces an abundance of random
     locations.)

     The new is created in the current mapset and contains
     randomly located on a background of category zero.  The
     categories on the original where random cells hit are copied
     to the new The category names from the input are also copied
     for the new A color table which will contrast with that of
     the input is generated for the new

     The coordinates that are put into the are the centers of the
     randomly selected cells.

     The user may choose to create both the cell map and the or,
     the user may choose to create only the cell or only the

NOTES
     If it is desired to create random locations within some, but
     not all non-zero categories of the input the user must first
     create a reclass[1] of the original containing only the
     desired categories, and use the reclassed as input to
     random.

     The random program does allow the user the option of
     generating locations within category zero as well. In this
     case, the locations which fall in areas of category zero
     will be added as a new category to the output

SEE ALSO
     Grandom[2G], reclass[1]





GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






random(1)            GRASS Reference Manual             random(1)



AUTHOR
     Dr. James Hinthorne, GIS Lab, Central Washington University





















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2



