


sites(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              sites(1)



NAME
     sites - Accesses information regarding sites

SYNOPSIS
     sites

OVERVIEW
     The sites program provides the user with the capability of
     interfacing site data with the geographic data in Two
     spatial analysis reports of the sites are available, as well
     as an interface to the S statistical package.

DESCRIPTION
     The sites program is a site server, providing options for
     the manipulation of site A site is a list of eastings and
     northings describing the of some point feature.  The user
     selects functions from a menu of functions.

     The main menu is:

        SITES MAIN MENU    (current list: no sites)

        LOCATION: spearfish    WINDOW 4928000.00(N)  4914000.00(S) 100.00 (RES)
        MAPSET:   PERMANENT            609000.00(E)   590000.00(W) 100.00 (RES)
        MASK:  none

        Please select one of the following

           1  Get an existing site map
           2  Mask current site map
           3  Save the current site map in your mapset

           4  Check site map for duplicate sites
           5  Edit site map using a UNIX editor

           6  Convert site map to cell map (0/1)
           7  Convert site map to cell map (frequency of occurrence)

           8  Run reports on the current site map


        stop  Leave the SITES program

   At the top of the menu is general information about the
   MAPSET, LOCATION, etc.  Note the above message in parentheses
   "current list:  no sites."  This message will vary depending
   on the status of the list. For example, after getting the
   existing site "arch_sites," the message would read (given the
   window indicated): "current list: 25 sites, 24 in current
   window."





GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






sites(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              sites(1)



   1  Get an existing site map
      This option will copy an existing site into the current
      site within the sites server.  Existing site are stored in
      the GRASS and are pulled into the sites server via this
      option.
      Note: site can be created and placed into a GRASS using
      option 5 (edit) followed by option 3 (save), or they can be
      created using other programs.

   2  Mask current site map
      The site can be reduced to a subset which includes only
      sites which fall in specific categories within a specified
      The user will be asked for the name of a to form the basis
      for the mask, and will then be allowed to specify
      categories from this which will limit the site As with
      mask[1], the categories selected are the ones where
      information will remain.  Those categories not selected
      will be set to "0."
      Note: this masking operation is performed only against the
      site itself and not against other If the user desires to
      analyze masked a mask should be create using the mask[1]
      program.

   3  Save the current site map in your mapset
      The current site can be stored permanently in your mapset
      with this option.  You will be asked to name the saved and
      to provide a short description.  Saved can be retrieved
      (option 1) during later runs of sites.
      Note: saved will be removed if the GRASS mapset is removed.

   4  Check site map for duplicate sites
      It is not desirable that a site contain multiple references
      to the same site.  This option attempts to recognize
      duplicate sites.  Duplicates are displayed to the user and
      can be removed automatically if the user desires.
      Duplicates can also be removed by hand using option 5
      (edit).

   5  Edit site map using a UNIX editor
      The user can modify the current site or create a new site
      by hand using a UNIX editor.  You will be asked to specify
      the editor you prefer to use.  You should exercise some
      care if you select this option.  Lines in the site which
      have invalid formats will be (silently) ignored by the
      sites server.  See the GRASS manual entry sites.format[3]
      for a description of the site format.
      Note: this will only modify the server list. It does not
      modify stored site If you wish to modify a stored you will
      have to combine options 1 (get), 5 (edit) and 3 (save).

   6  Convert site map to cell map (0/1)
      You can create a representation of the site in your GRASS



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






sites(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              sites(1)



      mapset.
      This can be used with other cell in further analyses.
      Allowing the user to create a of sites opens up the full
      analysis capabilities for site that are available for
      You have the option of specifying the number of cells to
      represent a site.  The minimum is one cell per site.  The
      alternatives are squares around the site: 3x3, 5x5, 7x7,
      etc.
      The number of categories present in the new will depend on
      the format of your site (see sites.format[3]).  You can
      create a non-binary representation of your site by creating
      the site in the format:
        E|N| #n label
      where E is the Easting, N is the Northing, and #n label is
      the description field.  The description field consists of a
      pound sign # followed by the category n to be associated
      with the site's and the category label label for n.
      If the user does not include a description field starting
      with
        #n
      beside the Easting and Northing on every line in the sites
      a binary cell will be created instead.  In the binary cell
      each site will be represented as the category value 1.
      Non-site cells will be coded as category value 0.

      Note that only sites within the current window will be
      considered.  However, if the size of the sites is more than
      one cell ( 3x3, 5x5, etc.) and a site lies near an edge of
      the window, some of the cells for the site may fall outside
      the window. These cells will not appear in the cell and the
      site will no longer be 3x3 or 5x5 but will be clipped to
      fit the window.

   7  Convert site map to cell map (frequency of occurrence)
      You can also create a frequency of occurrence
      representation of the site
      The cell values will be coded as the number of sites which
      fall within the cell.
      In this function, you do NOT have the option of specifying
      the number of cells to represent a site.

   8  Run reports on the current site map
      The current is passed to the report server after removing
      sites which do not fall within the GRASS mapset window.
      The user then selects one or more to analyze.  Data at (or
      near) the sites extracted from these form the basis for all
      reports.
      The user specifies the 'size' of a site in cells.  The
      'size' may be specified as a single cell, or as a 3x3
      square around the site, or 5x5, or 7x7, etc (where the size
      is an odd integer).




GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3






sites(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              sites(1)



   The following menu of reports is then presented:

        SITES REPORT MENU


        Please select one of the following

           1  Site characteristics report
           2  Site occurrence report

           3  Convert data to S input format
           4  Produce machine readable data file

        stop  return to SITES MAIN MENU

   1  Site characteristics report
      This report provides geographic information about each
      site.
      Each site is identified by description and information.
      The 'description' is an identification of the site.  The
      site is an easting and a northing.  (The does not denote
      the extent of the site, since, for example, an archeologic
      site which takes up two hectares would be represented as a
      single point).
      The information reported for each site is displayed by and,
      within each gives the categories (i.e., characteristics)
      that occurred at the site (as well as a count of the number
      of cells in each category).
      This can easily generate a massive amount of information,
      which is difficult to handle or digest quickly.  Therefore,
      option 2 produces a synopsis of the information.

   2  Site occurrence report
      This report provides aggregate site characteristic
      information organized by The report produces chi-square
      statistics for each measuring number of expected sites
      (assuming a random distribution of sites) against actual
      site occurrence.  The site characteristic is the most
      frequently occurring cell category in the site (i.e., the
      statistical mode).  See the GRASS manual entry for
      sites.occur[3] for details on this report.

   3  Convert data to S input format
      This function converts the GRASS data extracted for the
      sites into a form usable by the S statistical package.  The
      user provides a file to contain the information.  Once the
      file is written, the user must exit sites, run S on an S
      and issue the S command

      source ("<file >")

      to bring the data into the S (Of course, <file> would be



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         4






sites(1)             GRASS Reference Manual              sites(1)



      the name of the actual file supplied by the user.) See
      manual entry sites.S[3] for an explanation of the S data
      structures created by this interface.

   4  Produce machine readable data file
      This option provides a mechanism for the user to write
      his/her own reports.  The data is written into a user-
      specified file as a text file, which has a format readable
      by UNIX utilities (e.g., awk) or user-written programs.
      See GRASS manual entry sites.report[3] for details on this
      format.

FILES
     $LOCATION/site_list/<file >

SEE ALSO
     sites.format[3]   Format of the site maps
     sites.report[3]   Format of the machine readable report
     sites.occur[3]    Discussion of the site occurrence report
     sites.S[3]        Discussion of the S interface

AUTHORS
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory
     James Farley, Arkansas Archeological Survey, University of
     Arkansas
        contributed the frequency of occurrence sites to cell
        function



























GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         5



