


support(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            support(1)



NAME
     support - Create/correct cell map support files
     (Available through grass3 menu)

SYNOPSIS
     support

DESCRIPTION
     The GRASS tool support provides a means to create and modify
     necessary cell map support files.  It may be run only on
     cell in the current mapset.  Various GRASS programs depend
     on one or more of the following support files:

     CELLHD    The cell header file describes where and how the
               cell information fits with reference to other cell
               Without it, the cell could not be displayed or
               analyzed properly.  The user has the option to
               change the # of columns, # of bytes per cell, and
               default window information. Usually, this
               information would not be changed.

     STATS     The stats associated with the cell is a histogram
               of the values which occur in the cell

     CATS      The category support file associates map category
               with a description of each category. The user may
               add or edit the description of these categories.

     COLR      The color support file associates map category
               with a color for each category. The user may
               assign an original or choose a new color table.

     HIST      This provides some historical information about
               the The user may add or edit the title, map type,
               data source or data description of the cell map.
               (Note that the specification of map type here is
               somewhat archaic, and should always be set to
               cell.)

NOTES
     The support program attempts to verify that the information
     in the cell header is reasonable.  The data format specified
     in the header is verified against the cell itself. This
     includes checking that files which the header indicates are
     compressed are really compressed, and that the number of
     rows and columns specified in the header correspond to the
     actual file size.

     The support program can also be used to determine the number
     of columns and rows in the case that no cell header is
     available for a file.  This might occur, for example, when a
     cell file is used which was not produced by GRASS.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






support(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            support(1)



     If the file is not compressed, the file size should be the
     product of the number of rows and columns.  If the file is
     compressed, this test can not be performed since the file
     size will bear no relation to the product.  The number of
     rows can still be verified, but the number of columns
     cannot.

     To compute or correct the stats, the cell header must be
     correct since the cell file is read to determine the stats.

     If a new cats or color file is required, the stats must be
     correct.

     The user is allowed to change the number of categories
     specified in the category file. This should only be done if
     the user knows that the maximum category value in the cell
     is different than what is recorded in the category file.
     Changing the value in the cats file allows the user to add
     more category labels, or to remove labels.  It does NOT
     change the values in the cell itself.

     The color file is unique among support files.  GRASS usually
     does not allow a user to modify another user's data.
     However, it is essential that users be able to create color
     tables for which are not theirs.  The color file for a is
     located in the directory "$LOCATION/colr" and cannot be
     modified or removed by another user.  New or modified color
     tables for which are not in the current mapset are actually
     stored in a secondary color file.  This secondary color
     table will be at "$LOCATION/colr2/<mapset>" where <mapset>
     is the mapset of the in question.  In versions of GRASS
     prior to 3.0, this was also the case for color tables in the
     user's own mapset.  Now, however, if a user modifies color
     tables associated with maps in the current mapset, these
     changes will be made to the user's original color file
     (i.e., whatever color table was previously there will be
     overwritten).  No secondary color files are created for cell
     in the user's own mapset.

     Note that the variable $LOCATION is only set when the user
     is running under the command-driven version of GRASS
     (GRASS3).  For more information regarding the location and
     function of GRASS support files, consult the GRASS
     Programmer's Manual chapter on "GRASS Database Structure."

WARNING
     In order to modify the cell header, the cell under
     consideration must not be a reclass This is because the
     header does not contain positional information, but rather a
     reference to another cell Thus it shares a cell header with
     the referenced In order to change the header, support must
     be run on the referenced



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






support(1)           GRASS Reference Manual            support(1)



SEE ALSO
     reclass[1], Gcell.colors[2G]

AUTHOR
     Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory

















































GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3



