


watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



NAME
     watershed - Menu-driven user interface for running watershed
     analysis steps
     (GRASS Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     watershed

DESCRIPTION
     The watershed program is an interface to routines which
     perform various steps related to completing a watershed
     analysis.

     For the purpose of completing all steps of the process with
     a minimum of input required at each step, and in order to
     maintain a record of all parameters used to obtain a
     particular result, a "project" file is created to hold
     information pertaining to names and input parameter values.
     Upon entry of the watershed program, the user will first see
     the following:


              WELCOME TO THE WATERSHED SOFTWARE SYSTEM

       This program is designed to help you follow the correct
       steps to obtain a GRASS cell map depicting watershed
       geometry using an elevation cell map (with true elevation
       values) as a starting point.  All steps are recorded
       under the project name.



       Choose desired option:

       1.  Create new project
       2.  Create new project based on currently existing project
       3.  Work on an existing project

       4.  Remove old files


     The user can exit from the program after completing any
     number of steps. Hence, the option to "Work on an existing
     project" allows for finishing any remaining steps, or for
     redoing particular steps, or both.

     A new project may be created with all new inputs, or a new
     project can be created using inputs from a previous project.

     The option to remove old files should be used to remove only
     miscellaneous files created as part of the watershed
     program.  All created using this program should be removed



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         1






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



     in the usual way using command Gremove[2G].  The files which
     can be removed using option 4 above include those storing
     pit points and the miscellaneous file storing nodes
     information created as part of the step to code stream
     segments.  These files should not be removed until the
     analysis of which they are a part is finished and over.  An
     option is also provided to remove project files.  Again,
     since this is a file which stores information to complete
     the project and which tells of the input parameters used to
     create a particular product, this should also not be removed
     prematurely.  See the rest of this document for further
     explanation of these files and their usage.

     Once an old or new project has been chosen, the user will be
     presented the following menu and allowed to choose an
     option:

     1.  Filtering elevation cell map
     2.  Locating pits
     3.  Calculating drainage accumulation/outlining watershed
     4.  Creating stream network
     5.  Coding stream segments/finding segment lengths
     6.  Finding subwatershed basins

     7.  Quit

     The steps are presented in the order they should be used to
     complete the total watershed analysis for the purpose of
     creating all products.  While input is being accepted for
     each individual step, the option is given whether to run the
     actual program.  If the program has been run and completed
     without error, the word "COMPLETE" will appear on the above
     menu after the listing of that step.

     It is not required that all the steps be completed, or that
     they be run in this particular order, except where products
     from one step are required for another.  Steps 1 and 2 can
     be used apart from the rest of the steps in the menu.  In
     order to complete all six steps, all parts must be
     completed, with the exception of step number 1 (unfiltered
     data may be used for steps 2 and 3, but time requirements
     will be affected -- see explanations below).


1. FILTERING
     This function smoothes elevation using a particular filter
     for the purpose of decreasing significantly the number of
     pits found, eliminating many pits which are glitches in the
     instead of true pits.

     Any can be filtered with this program, but for the purposes
     of watershed analysis, the input must contain true elevation



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         2






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



     values.  The user is asked for the input an output name, and
     the desired number of filter iterations.  It is normally
     sufficient to filter the once.  Some pit points will remain,
     but these are probably true pits.  The filtering is done on
     3x3 neighborhoods, using a weighted averaging technique.
     The filtering is done only on the input values, not on rows
     already averaged during the filtering process.

NOTES
     The current window setting is ignored.  Instead, the window
     for the entire input is used.

     For the purposes of completing all the steps of the
     watershed analysis, this is the only optional step.  If
     filtering of the elevation is not done, it is likely that an
     abundance of pits will be found, and execution of the next
     couple of steps will be time consuming.


2. LOCATING PITS
     This step generates a list of pit points designated by their
     cell coordinates.  Pits are points which are characterized
     as having an elevation value which is less than or equal to
     that of all neighboring points.  Input to this program
     should be a cell containing true elevation values. It is
     usually helpful to filter the elevation first  (see
     "FILTERING" above).  The pit points are sorted by decreasing
     elevation value, and stored in a miscellaneous file under
     the current location and mapset.

NOTES
     The current window setting is ignored.  Instead, the window
     for the entire input (elevation) is used.

     For the purposes of completing all the steps of the
     watershed analysis, pit points are used to begin the process
     of identifying depression areas and possible lakes.


3. CALCULATING DRAINAGE ACCUMULATION
     This step generates a drainage accumulation from elevation
     Drainage accumulation is designated by assigning each cell a
     category value equivalent to the number of cells within the
     designated watershed that drain into that cell. An implied
     watershed boundary is generated, as all cells outside the
     watershed have category value zero (no data).  Also
     generated are an adjusted drainage direction map (adjusted
     to allow for the draining of water across lakes), and an
     optional product which denotes designated lakes, pits, and
     redirected routes.

     The elevation used for input will be that used in the



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         3






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



     previous step to find pit points.  Users must supply all
     output map names, the desired watershed outlet point, and
     threshold values for slope (what decimal slope value is
     considered "flat" for the purposes of including cells in the
     watershed basin) and for pit processing (number of meters to
     allow for error above the pouring point in making decisions
     on cells to include in a lake basin about a pit point).

     It is important that input parameters are chosen with care
     for this step in order to produce meaningful results.
     Following are some suggested ways to do this choosing.

     The watershed outlet acts as a beginning place for this
     routine.  The chosen as the outlet is used as the first cell
     in the watershed, and then all adjacent cells are checked
     for the criteria of 'upslope.'  Recursive calls are made to
     a 'hill-climbing' routine each time an adjacent upslope cell
     is found.  These recursive calls continue until the edge of
     the watershed is reached.  Thus, the chosen outlet point
     determines the accuracy of the product, and attempts should
     be made to find a point within a drainage channel.  In order
     to choose an outlet point accurately, the user should follow
     these recommendations: 1.  use the displaying techniques
     available in GRASS to "window in" on the area containing the
     desired outlet point (displaying the elevation being used).
     2.  use "whereami" techniques within display or the Dwhere
     command to locate an outlet point in an area where elevation
     category changes have sharp crenulations.

     The slope threshold is used to aid in decisions during the
     process of hill-climbing by defining "flatness." When a
     cell's neighbors are being checked for inclusion in the
     watershed, the decision is based on whether that neighbor
     drains into the current cell in question (and is therefore
     considered "upslope"), or whether the slope magnitude of
     that neighbor is sufficiently small to justify traversing it
     on the way to finding the watershed boundary (thus defining
     "flatness").  This definition of what is meant by the slope
     magnitude being "sufficiently small" is left to the user
     through input of the slope threshold.  (Slope in this
     routine is calculated as a decimal value using a gradient
     calculation of the square root of the sum of the central
     difference in the x direction squared plus the central
     difference in the y direction squared.)  A reasonable value
     for the slope threshold is dependent on the terrain in
     question and the resolution of the elevation provided.  As a
     general rule, the slope threshold should be smaller for a
     finer resolution of elevation due to the fact that finer
     resolution data generally implies smaller differences in
     elevation values between two cells (again, dependent on the
     terrain begin depicted).  The user may need to experiment
     with various threshold values until desired results are



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         4






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



     obtained, but as a suggested starting point, a slope
     threshold of about 2/1000 (.002) could be tried for 30 m.
     data, and about 2/100 (.02) for 100 m. data.  If, after
     running this step with a particular slope threshold, the
     resulting seems to include cells which should not be part of
     the watershed in question, the step should be rerun with a
     smaller slope threshold.  The choice of a good slope
     threshold may be particularly crucial if the watershed
     outlet is in a relatively flat area.

     As part of this step, "local drainage areas" (or "lakes")
     are defined for each pit.  Starting at a pit point,
     surrounding cells are included in its local drainage area by
     satisfying one of two criteria:  either the adjacent cell
     drains naturally to the pit point in question, or it has a
     slope magnitude of zero AND has an elevation value equal to
     that of the adjoining cell which is already assigned to the
     drainage area.  (When assignment occurs due to this second
     set of criteria, the assigned cell has its drainage
     direction redirected to the adjoining cell, and thus
     ultimately towards the pit point.) Once all cells meeting
     the criteria have been included in the drainage area, a
     "lake area" (which may or may not represent an actual lake)
     is extracted from it.  The lake area is determined by
     finding the pouring point of the local drainage area (the
     cell along the boundary with the lowest elevation), and
     including in the lake only the cells within the drainage
     area that have elevation equal to or lower than the pouring
     point plus some error tolerance defined by the user.  This
     error tolerance is what is input as the pit threshold. In
     general, it also holds true here that the finer the
     resolution of the data, the smaller the value of the needed
     pit threshold.  For 30 m. data, a reasonable pit threshold
     value is 5 m., and for 100 m. data, a pit threshold of 10 m.
     or more is probably needed.  This threshold may also need to
     be adjusted according to the type of terrain being depicted.
     Depiction of lake areas is important with respect to the
     fact that the included cells will have their drainage
     direction pointers redirected.

     In order to obtain the desired results, the user may need to
     experiment with various combinations of inputs.  It is
     essential that the drainage accumulation output contain
     meaningful data before its use in the next step, so the user
     should check the results using display before continuing.
     (A quick preliminary check for meaningful results can be
     done using Gdescribe on the output If Gdescribe gives the
     values of the output as all small, then the results are not
     meaningful unless the user desires a very small watershed to
     be defined.  The size of the values in the output are
     directly related to the size of the watershed depicted.)




GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         5






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



NOTES
     The pit processing step must be completed before this step.

     The current window setting is used.  The user should take
     care that the desired watershed is within the current window
     if possible.  (The watershed boundary may extend beyond the
     edge of available elevation input


4. CREATING STREAM NETWORK
     This step generates a stream network from a drainage
     accumulation input User must supply an accumulation
     threshold (number of cells that must drain into a given cell
     before that cell is saved as part of the stream network) as
     well as the desired number of thinning iterations.  The
     accumulation threshold will determine the density of the
     tributaries in the resulting stream network.  The smaller
     the threshold, the more tributaries in the result.  All
     cells within the input which have category values less than
     the threshold will be eliminated.  (Please note that if the
     results of step 3 are not meaningful, it will be impossible
     to obtain a stream network product here.)  The threshold
     value should be chosen based on the values in the input and
     on the desired tributary density; but a reasonable threshold
     estimate for 30 m. data would be 60 or 70.  (An equivalent
     threshold for 100 m. data would be smaller.) If the
     resulting stream network is to be used to complete the rest
     of the steps of this interface, it is essential that
     thinning be done to one width.  The user should begin by
     using a fairly small number of thinning iterations (3 to 5),
     and rerun this step with a higher number of iterations if
     the results do not meet this criteria.  (Display should be
     used to check the output.) If large "widened" or lake-like
     areas remain in the output after a fairly high number of
     iterations, the user should use a higher threshold value.

NOTES
     The current window setting is ignored.  Instead, the window
     for the entire input is used.


5. CODING STREAM SEGMENTS
     This step generates a stream network which is coded by
     stream segment given a zero-one input of a one width stream
     network generated through the steps in this menu.  At each
     branching of the original network, a new category is
     assigned.  Thus, the resulting network has each channel
     segment denoted by a unique category This numbering will
     correspond with the numbering of subbasins within the given
     watershed.  The resulting is an optional product.  Please
     note that this step will not complete if the input streams
     map has not been thinned to one width.



GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         6






watershed(1)         GRASS Reference Manual          watershed(1)



     A miscellaneous file is also created which contains the
     nodes (beginning and ending points) for each segment, as
     well as the length of each segment.  This output file is
     needed for the running of the next step.

NOTES
     The current window setting is ignored.  Instead, the window
     for the entire input is used.

     This step needs a zero-one as input.  However, the output
     (if requested) will have as many categories as there are
     channel segments in the network representation.


6. FINDING SUBWATERSHED BASINS
     This final step in the process generates an output
     containing a unique category and area for each subbasin
     within a given watershed and for a given stream network.
     This must be run as part of the series of steps from this
     menu, and needs an input of adjusted drainage directions
     (from step 3) and the name of the thinned stream network
     used as input to step number 5.  Thus, steps 2 through 5
     must be completed before this program can be run.

NOTES
     The current window setting is ignored.  Instead, the window
     for the entire stream network is used.

     Number of categories in the output is equivalent to the
     number of channel segments in the stream network.

BUGS
     Results of this step may not be completely accurate.
     Problems are due to routing of water over lakes and flat
     areas, as well as problems with the thinning routine.  To
     create a product using alternate means, see Appendix A of
     the GRASS Tutorial: watershed.

AUTHORS
     Marjorie Larson, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory
     Larry Band, Dept. of Geography, University of Toronto













GRASS 3.2                U.S. Army CERL                         7



