.TH Ggrow 2G G-language
.SH NAME
Ggrow \- Generate output layer with contiguous areas grown by one pixel
.br
.I (GRASS-GRID Tool)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBGgrow\fR [-vb] \fIinputmap outputmap\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ggrow
generates an output layer from the input layer by
adding one cell around the perimeter of areas.
An area consists of
any contiguous clump of grid cells with non-zero category
values.  No distinction is made between differing
category values within an area.  Rather, a border is
grown around the outside of the entire contiguous set
of non-zero grid cells.

The optional -v flag supresses the printing of information
about program operations during execution of the command.

Use of the optional -b flag will result in an output
map layer which is completely zero-one, regardless of
category values in the input layer.  For this case, 
all grid cells with a non-zero value in the input map 
layer are assigned to category 1 in the output map layer.
Without the -b flag, these grid cells retain their original
non-zero category value.  In either case, all grid cells
whose category value is changed from 0 during the growing
process are given a category value of 1.

The output map layer will not go outside of the
current window.  Thus, if a contiguous area in the input map
layer extends to the edge of the current window, no
new border cells can be added to that side of the area.

Growth around a rectangular area in the input layer will
occur straight out from each edge, but not diagonally
from the corners of the rectangle.  Thus, the "grown"
border area will contain lines along the edge of the
original rectangle, but the corners of the border will not
be squared off.  Instead, the lines
of the border which go along each side of the original rectangle
will touch only at the corners of the grid cells at the end of
each line.

The \fIGgrow\fR command is useful in representing the boundary
of one or more areas.  In this case the -b flag should NOT
be used. Then the input map layer can be subtracted from
the output map layer using the \fIGmapcalc\fR command.  All
original non-zero grid cell values will be subtracted out,
leaving the boundary areas only.  This resulting zero-one
boundary depiction can be displayed over other related map
layers using \fIDoverlay\fR.
.SH NOTES
If the resolution of the current window does not agree with the
resolution of the input map layer, unintended resampling of
the original data may occur.  The user should be sure that
the current window is set properly.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIgrow[1]\fR,
\fIGmapcalc[2]\fR,
\fIDoverlay[2]\fR
.SH "AUTHOR"
Marjorie Larson, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
