
NOTE: This is an updated version of "geom". From now on the coordinates (of 
      the input sites) saved in the output file are truncated to the chosen 
      precision. This update fixes some problems with the voronoi option,
      which resulted in lines crossing the diagram and unclosed polygons.
      some minor changes were also made in the optri library and in most of
      the "main.c"s. the man pages were modified and contain more information
      about the triangulations, "flat" triangles and how to handle messy 
      input data.

IMPORTANT: read the file README.before.you.gmake before you gmake!!!!

geom containes sourcecode for the s.geom and v.geom triangulation packages for 
site and vector files. 

in addition the following two programs are provided:

v.in.minmaxer ... reads the output of the program minmaxer and converts it into
                  vector format.

s.out.minmaxer ... reads site data in grass format and computes an input
                   file for minmaxer.

minmaxer is a program developed for NCSA and is available via anoymous
ftp from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu. It is a tool which allows visualization of 2 1/2
dimensional triangulations. The current version of minmaxer (v1.04) cannot
yet read edges, and requires coordinates to be integer. s.out.minmaxer can be
used to convert grass site data into minmaxer format. a new implementation
of minmaxer is planned but postponed because of lack of time. 

about the libraries:

"basic", "lia", and "sos" are used by "optri" for long-integer computations.
they were implemented by ernst mucke and are available by anonymous
ftp from ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu as part of the "NCSA-alvis" (3d alpha shape) package.

"optri" is a library which provides implementations of algorithms for
optimal triangulations in 2 dimensions. an earlier, less organized,
version of these algorithms is part of minmaxer v1.04.

please send any comments to

	roman waupotitsch
	waupo@cs.uiuc.edu

enjoy,

roman

Wed Jun 22 16:03:26 CDT 1994
