





            GRASS-MAPGEN INTERFACE FUNCTIONS
            
            ---------------
            
            OVERVIEW
            
            The GRASS-MAPGEN Interface enables SCS's non-computer
            resource managers to transform accurate geographic data into
            comprehensive cartographic products for use as resource
            management tools.
            
            The Interface is a combination of mostly interactive and
            some command-line driven operations to produce vector-
            plotted maps, unique to user design and layout, from GRASS
            files.  The Interface bridges the GRASS software to a
            software package originally written by the U.S. Geological
            Survey called MAPGEN.  USGS's MAPGEN software, a robust but
            non-friendly command-line driven package, resides in it's
            entirity within the GRASS Version 3.1 software once the
            Interface is loaded.
            
            The Interface design was pilot tested by a total of twelve
            SCS and CERL sites during the period April through mid-
            September and was recently released within SCS in October
            1990.  Users should have a working knowledge of UNIX and
            GRASS to use the Interface, and an awareness of cartographic
            principles is beneficial.  Formal training from the National
            Cartographic Center (NCC) in the Interface operation is
            required.
            
            
            CHARACTERISTICS
            
            o    The design features of the GRASS-MAPGEN Interface
            include a series of interactive "make" commands for
            constructing the basic elements of a cartographic product,
            such as a bar scale, north arrow and legend.
            
            o    Defining the layout and location for all of the
            elements is performed using centimeter values.
            
            o    The map layout and design, which is fully controlled by
            the user, can also be quickly and easily revised with the
            aid of "redo" functions.
            
            o    Default selections are also provided for all responses
            required by the user during the interactive construction of
            the map elements to even further simplify the element
            construction process.
            
            o    Directory structures, which store the map contents, are
            automatically set up by the Interface.  As successive layers
            are built, they are automatically stored within the
            appropriate directories.





            
            o    Since both MAPGEN and the MAPGEN Interface reside in
            the GRASS Version 3.1 software, both may be used.  Standard
            UNIX and GRASS commands are also accepted while in the
            Interface.
            
            Plotter interface is available to the DMP61 and the HPGL
            7475 and 7595 plotters.  Numerous other device drivers are
            available for the command-line version of MAPGEN.
            
            A full line of documentation, which includes a task-oriented
            guide, command definitions and a tutorial, are available to
            users.
            
            
            COMMAND FUNCTIONS
            
            The MAPGEN command enters the Interface and sets up the                MAPGEN                                             
            MAPGEN environment, placing the user in the correct
            directory for the map to be edited.
            
            A make.mapdef command generates the map definition,              make.mapdef                                      
            controlling the layout of the map and the transformation of
            geographic coordinates of the users selected GRASS window.
            
            The make.line command brings a vector line file into the map                make.line                                               
            environment as geographic coordinates.
            
            The make.neatline command allows the user to add a neatline                make.neatline                                          
            around the limit of the map.
            
            The make.symbol command constructs graphic symbols from a                make.symbol                                          
            GRASS sites, category, or attribute file.
            
            The make.label command constructs text labels from a GRASS                make.label                                            
            sites, category, or attribute file.
            
            The make.fill command generates an area fill from a GRASS                make.fill                                            
            vector file.
            
            The make.text command is used to generate text for the map                make.text                                             
            composition, such as the map title and source note.
            
            The make.legend command to used to construct a map legend,                make.legend                                           
            showing line, symbol and thematic map classifications.
            
            The make.grid command generates a grid and grid annotation                make.grid                                             
            for the map image.
            
            The make.barscale command constructs up to four bar scales,                make.barscale                                          
            showing a variety of measuring units for the map.
            
            The map.arrow command draws a north arrow, showing the north                map.arrow                                               
            orientation of the map.





            
            Some commands, such as the make.text and make.barscale                                       make.text     make.barscale
            commands, allow the user to choose the location of the map
            elements either directly on the graphic screen, via a mouse
            device, or to use the keyboard.
            
            The commands show.sh and plot.sh enable the user to show the                         show.sh     plot.sh                            
            map on the graphic screen or to make a hardcopy plot of the
            map.  Other commands in the Interface enable the user to
            easily copy a map to a new environment, or to rename or
            remove existing map elements in the existing map
