If your input files are not in the input formats accepted by our
encoder, fear not!  Here are some ways to get the pictures into our
encoder...

1) Converting files to PPM

To convert JPEG files, check out the files in the jpeg directory of the
encoder.  Compile djpeg for your machine, and you can use it to convert
them to PPM.

For other input formats, see Jef Poskanzer's PBMPLUS package, which has
a tool to convert almost every single format to PPM.  One anonymous ftp
site which carries it is ee.utah.edu, in the directory /pbmplus.

If, by chance, PBMPLUS does not support your format, please drop us a
note at mpeg-bugs@plateau.cs.berkeley.edu and we'll try to add it to
this archive for future releases.


2) Converting files to Encoder/Berkeley YUV (called YUV in earlier
releases).

Encoder YUV is merely the concatenation of the Y, U, and V data, in
order.  It is *not* Abekas YUV, which interlaces the Y, U, and V data.

Since the encoder now supports Abekas YUV and other YUV formats, there
is not a pressing need to have a special conversion program for our
format.  However, if you insist, you can convert your video format to
PPM using PBMPLUS and then run ppmtoeyuv in this directory.


3) Converting files to Abekas YUV

Get Jef Poskanzer's PBMPLUS package as mentioned in (1) and convert
your image to PPM.  Then run ppmtoyuv on it.  Obviously, you will only
want to do this if you want to keep the source images around, since the
encoder takes the larger PPM format as well.

4) Converting system layer streams into video and audio streams:

Use mpeg_demux

5) Reading JPEGs:  If you have any problems with our built in JPEG support,
the new version of the IJPEG Group's efforts is avail from:
ftp.uu.net:/graphics/jpeg/jpegsrc.v5b.tar.gz
As well as many other sites.  (Note that the version number may increase
with time ;-)
If using BASE_FILE_FORMAT jpeg does not work, try building the djpeg
utility out of the JPEG distrib and using
BASE_FILE_FORMAT ppm
INPUT_CONVERT djpeg *

6) VID files
You can now read vid files directly from the encoder.
If you wish to compile vidtoeyuv for efficiency, you must have libXvid

