Help for r.colortool:

INSTALLATION:

  1. Install with gmake4.2
            
   - r.colortool goes in the /usr/local/grass42/bin directory
   - utilprocs.tcl and filereqs.tcl go in the
       /usr/local/grass42/etc/r.colortool directory

  2.The Tcl8.0, Tk8.0 version of wish should be in /usr/local/bin

USER GUIDE:

  1. Run from your grass shell: r.colortool
  
  2. Use Load to load an existing colour file from the colr directory
     of the current MAPSET.
  
  3. Use the 'Up' and 'Down' buttons to select the required category number.
     At present the program can't handle colour files with an offset at
     the start.
      
     ie.% 16 17
        %%
        1:58:235:72
        2:225:6:199
        %%

      Categories 16 and 17 are the only two cats occurring in this raster.
      r.colortool will only see the entries 1 and 2 and will not save changes
      correctly.
      The workaround is to build the new color file from scratch leaving
      categories 1 thru 15 black.
      Alternative is to make r.colortool smarter. All contributions are
      welcome.

  4. The current colour is shown in the lower box. To modify the current
     colour click on 'Modify'; it is then copied to the work area - upper box.
     The RGB sliders don't update but the correct hex value is displayed
     next to the upper box. Use the RGB colour sliders to select the new
     colour; once your happy click on 'Set' and the lower box will update.

  5. To save the new or updated color file click on 'Save' and the requester
     will default to the file you just loaded or you can give it a new name.


     Its a bit clunky but it did what was required at the time. Its fairly
     easy to modify. As I mentioned in my EMAIL it doesn't handle the color
     range format where pairs of RGB values are used to ramp from one category
     to another.

     Some of this was hacked from an example colouredit.tk.gz in the tcl/tk world.
     For completeness I have included it here. The author is uncertain.
     It is called coloredit.tk. 
     The mods were done by a year 11 student on vacation. The libraries are his and were
     written here. His name is Michael Chamberlain. He is unavailable :-) 
     
      Rod Paterson     - 1997
      aberfoyle.oz.au 

------------
Gmakefile changes 17. July 1998 by Markus Neteler 
                                   neteler@geog.uni-hannover.de