Last Modified 9 Jul 91
----------------------
Xgen was developed by Kurt Buehler, while at the Center for Advanced Decision
Support for Water and Environmental Systems (CADSWES), University of Colorado
at Boulder and at the Indiana Water Resources Research Center (IWRRC),
Purdue University for the U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
Laboratory in support of the Geographical Resources Analysis Support
System (GRASS) software. The example scripts were developed by Ms. Christine
Poulsen of USA-CERL, much thanks goes to her for her work.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute without charge this software,
documentation, etc. is granted, provided that this comment is retained,
and that the names of Kurt Buehler, Christine Poulsen, CADSWES, IWRRC,
the University of Colorado at Boulder, Purdue University, or USA-CERL are not
used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
without specific, written prior permission.

The author disclaims all warranties with regard to this software, including
all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness, in no event shall
the author be liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or
any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits,
whether in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action,
arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of this
software.

What is it?
-----------

Xgen is a graphical user interface (GUI) generator tool that was designed 
to be used for the rapid generation of interfaces to existing shell level 
programs. A simple, hierarchically-oriented language allows an interface 
programmer to define a GUI which is used to collect information from the 
user and subsequently use this information to execute shell level commands.
This tool allows for construction of interfaces without concern for the 
details of the window system application programming interface and without 
knowledge of programming in a high-level language. The document in the doc
directory describes the framework in which it operates, the hierarchical 
structure of applications, and a complete description of the Xgen language. 
The final section details the construction of a GUI to the UNIX ps command
as an example of it's use. The examples directory contains more complete
examples useful for learning how to use xgen.

Where does it run?
------------------

Xgen was developed and tested on a SparcStation under SunOS4.1, it has been
tested somewhat on Sun3's under SunOS4.1, 4.0.3. A person (Mark Scannapieco)
has ported to the IBM RS6000 and released it with some other software. 
**It needs Motif 1.0.**
It should compile under Motif 1.1 and 1.1.1, but not everything will work
correctly (I only had a few days to work on this...8-()

What is going on?
-----------------

Over the next few months I plan to complete the upgrade to Motif 1.1+ and
integrate work done by Mark and others. If you are interested in receiving
the "latest" on xgen status, you can e-mail me at kurt@zorro.cecer.army.mil
and I'll put you on the "mailing list".

How do I compile it?
--------------------

 Go to the src directory
     % cd src
 Edit the Imakefile to reflect your preferences, etc.. 
 (instructions are included as comments in the Imakefile)
 Make the Makefile
     % xmkmf 
     Note that this requires the imake utility. If you don't have imake, 
     you will have to edit the Makefile included in the src directory 
     to reflect the condition of your X Window installation. 
 Make dependencies
    % make depend
 Make xgen
    % make
 And optionally install it
    % make install
 And optionally install the man page
    % make install.man
 You're done...
