.ds X Gpoints.surf2
.TH \*X 2G
.SH NAME
\*X - Surface interpolation utility
.br
(G Language Tool)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*X input output points
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*X fills a grid cell matrix with interpolated values
generated from a set of input layer data points.  It uses a
numerical approximation technique based on distance 
squared weighting of the values of nearest data points. The
number of nearest data points used to determined the
interpolated value of a cell can be specified by the user
(default:  12 nearest data points).

If there is a current working mask, it applies to the output
cell file.  Only those cells falling within the mask will be
assigned interpolated values.  The search procedure for the
selection of nearest neighboring points will consider all 
input data, without regard to the mask.

In comparison with other methods, numerical
approximation allows representation of more complex surfaces
(particularly those with anomalous features), restricts the
spatial influence of any errors, and generates the
interpolated surface from the data points. It is the most
appropriate method to apply to most spatial data.

The command line arguments are as follows:

.IP input 7
grid cell map that contains an incomplete set of 
data values.  (i.e., some grid cells contain
known data values while the rest contain zero (0)).

.IP output 
grid cell map that represents a smooth surface
generated from the known data values in the input
layer.

.IP points
number of nearest data points used to determine the
interpolated value of an output layer cell.  If this
argument is not included, a default of 12 is used.

.SH NOTES
\*X uses a customized data
structure to enhance the efficiency with which nearest data
points are selected.  Execution speed is a
function of the search effort, and does not increase with
the number of input data points.  

The mask, if set, has the following effect on the
interpolation. The input file is read as if no mask were set,
but interpolation only occurs within the mask.

The degree of smoothing produced by the interpolation will
increase relative to the number of nearest data points con-
sidered.  The utility may be used with regularly or irregu-
larly spaced input data.  However, the output result for 
the former may include unacceptable nonconformities in the
surface pattern.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Koerper, Global Climate Research Project, Oregon State
University (koerper@cs.orst.edu).
