/* Written 10:48 am  Oct 11, 1989 by shapiro@amber.cecer.army.mil in shadow.cecer.army.mil:grass */
/* ---------- "3.1 beta report from NPS" ---------- */
NPS submitted the following report on the 3.1 beta release:

-----

Ralph is having lots of problems with the sun 386i related to upgrading
the operating system to 4.02.  He will forward more information when he
can.  Have you upgraded to 4.02 yet?

-----

Something is very peculiar with the color tables in float versus fixed
mode.  In fixed mode, only half the categories display correctly.  In
float mode, they all appear to display correctly.  This is most
apparent with a grey scale color table.  Also in float mode, there
appear to be only 240 colors available, after 240 there are perhaps
preassigned colors?

(Ralph says he used the mass512 driver when compiling).

Also in some way related to the colormode, I ran V.mkquads -evsw in
spearfish, starting at the default window (res=100) and then attributed
the areas starting at the upper left going across and then down (30
areas) 1-6 in top row, 7-12 in second row down, etc.  I then cellified
this vector file in GRASS3.0 (vect.to.cell in 3.1 doesn't work) with
the current window at:  n=4965470 s=4875670 e=660070 w=547170 res=100
(rows=898 cols=1129) and then returned to GRASS3.1.  When displaying
this file in fixed colormode, all is well, but when displaying this
file in float colormode and with the above window, apparent resampling
problems appear on the screen at the right edge of the 12th quad, and
at the edges between quads 17 & 18, 23 & 24, and 28 & 29.  When one
windows in on these "glitches" they are not in the file, but only on
the screen when resampling the data.

-----

a.b.vect

This is not strictly a beta-bug, but also a bug in 3.0.  When we
imported a large ascii dig file (943748 bytes with 1880 lines, 1341
nodes, 579 areas, 47 sites, and 529 atts) it would add an additional
point to the very end of the data file.  It did this repeatedly, and
for several different files.  However, if one adds a blank line to the
end of the dig_ascii file, then it is imported cleanly.

-----

access

did NOT automatically compile

-----

digit

(Lots of typos in the HELP menu)

Typo - Help Top Level Global Menu Page (3rd to last line)

         "While these will cause and immediate action"
                          should read
         "While these will cause an immediate action"

Typo - under help for zoom on the Global Menu Page (last line)

         "on the Cusomize menu"
             should read
         "on the Customize menu"

Typo - under help for Digitize under the Global Menu Page 

        "Go to the Digitize menu.  This one of the primary menus"
            should read
        "Go to the Digitize menu.  This is one of the primary menus"

Typo - under help for Window under the Global Menu Page

       3rd line the "e" in "the" at the end of the line gets cut off.

Bug -  When you escape out of Help after getting help on an option,
       the main help screen is written back 'over' the screen, but in
       the wrong location!

Typo - Under Customize, help, d - the text lines don't fit inside the 
       window.

Typo - Under Customize, help, O - "specifiy" should read "specify"

Typo - Under Customize, help, B - (last line) "change" should read "changed"

Bug -  In the Display options and Color options menus, if you ask for
       help AFTER asking for help in the "customize options" screen,
       then Help puts "no help available" into the middle of the
       Customize menu Help screen, and then erases this mess quickly  -
       confusing!

       If you haven't asked for help in the "customize options" screen
       on this digit run, then you get just "no help available" which
       erases in a timely manner.

Typo - Under Edit, Help, (r and i)
       (last line) "returne" should be "return"

Typo - Under Edit, Help, t
       (last line) "egdes" should be "edges"

Typo - Under Digitize, Help, l(Auto label)
       (last line) "will automatically labeled with the specifiied value"
            should read
       "will  automatically be labeled with the specified value"

-----

d.3d

If you do a 3d view of elevation in spearfish on elevation in
spearfish, and up the resolution to 60 meters rather than 30, then the
vectors all try to connect to some point in the midwest section of the
file. It looks very strange.  It only effects the vectors, and only if
you increase the resolution.  It occurs whether or not you plot the
cell file.

I like the new "interactive page" and being able to save it, and I
really like the "color" option for the line color.  This has been
greatly improved!

This program appears to use additional color planes that Derase, and
Dscreen don't touch, so there is a red image left after running Derase,
or Dcell (you can "see through" your cell file to the red image left
from the 3d).  This also appears to happen sometimes with Dcell.  It
also appears when running Dslideshow.

-----

display

The faster negative checking is GREAT!

-----

distance

This appears to only work in Gdistance. 

-----

demo

message upon entering the demo:
cp: cannot create 16642.wind 
and upon leaving:
cp: cannot access 16642.wind
(the number changes)

Under Boolean overlays: the bottom map did NOT show both the low pH
soils and high elevations, but JUST the low pH soils.  (By the way,
aren't they really showing low elevations, not high ones?)

It doesn't bomb out!  Other than words running out of the screen boxes,
and it not being finished, it's great!

-----

vect.to.cell

When trying to cellify any file,
under step 1: Calculating Areas: vect.to.cell    

Memory fault - core dumped.

-----

V.mkquads

Did not compile automatically.

In the manual entry for V.mkquads, the 12th line under "OUTPUT OPTIONS"
has the word "crated" which should read "created".

Even if V.mkquads cannot make any quad outlines (the window is not
large enough) it goes ahead and makes the vector file.  Could it not
remove the file if it couldn't make any outlines to go in it?

The usage line for V.mkquads does not include anything about the -w
option.

The -w option window created does not encompass the entire quad in
either direction, but especially the e-w direction.

***We would really like the capability to outline 15 minute quads for
Alaska!  Is this possible?

-----

V.mkgrid

In the introductory statement - "...will have to be ran before..."
should be: "...will have to be RUN before...".

Couldn't there be an option for the grid to cover at least the entire
current window?  Prompt for grid size, and use multiples of that size
to grid just barely around the current window.  If your size was 100
meters in each direction then, build the grid from the multiple of 100
just less than the westing, and southing to the multiple of 100 just
greater then the northing and easting.  All the information one needs,
to do something like this with the current version is overwhelming!
Perhaps if these values could be the default values that could be
changed with your prompts, it would provide the best of both worlds
(one of the first questions asked would have to be the grid size, and
then the rest of the questions could have a default based on that grid
size, and the current window).

-----

Gwhat

This is great!  Can now easily get info about sites without going
through the sites reports.

-----

Dsplit

Works!

-----

Dpaint.labels

Does NOT use different fonts.  This is not documented any where.

-----

Darea

Works!

-----

d.rgb

Seems to work!

-----

Gline

When executing, can't get past:

Opening files
Performing extraction
Bus error (core dumped)

-----

Glut

Works!

When running Gmake:
Gmakefile not found (or not readable)  -  There is no Gmakefile!

I copied one over from an old version we had picked up from CERL over
the phone lines.

-----

Gthin

Seems to work!

-----

Gtraj

When running Gmake:

cp HELP /usr/plot/grass3.1/man/help/Gtraj;chmod +r /usr/plot/grass3.1/man...
cp: cannot access HELP
Error code 2
Stop

Could not get it to work, but don't know how it should work...  There
is no manual entry.  I don't know enough to know if it is working or
not.

-----

Gvolume

I can't get any output, there is no manual and no help.

-----

Gwatershed

I can't get past the usage statement, and there is no manual and no help.

When running Gmake:
cc -O -flight -I /usr/plot/grass3.1/src/libes -DSYSV -c Gwatershed.c
##W-cpp(100) Gwatershed.c: 15:NULL redefined

-----

Gcontour.surf

Doesn't have a usage statement, no manual, no help - without something,
there is no way to figure it out!

-----

Mflip

When running Gmake:
Make: Don't know how to make Mflip.2. Stop

When executing, I can't get it to accept any (decompressed) file, it
says:  'filename': No such file or directory

-----

binfer

no help, no usage statement, no manual - without something, there is no
way to figure it out!

-----

range.place

There seems to be some major bugs, I couldn't get it to work.  Most of
the time when you type in something from the keyboard, the mouse never
returns, so you are locked up with CNTRL-c being the only way I could
find to escape.

The manual suggests going through the sequence:
landpat -> display -> add -> any_basic_pattern
or
landpat -> display -> modify -> landpattern
but all I get in either case is:
Bus error (core dumped)

-----

pmake.label.sh

One needs to execute "sh" before running this program.  This is not
mentioned anywhere.

The eastings and northings are reversed because of the reversal in Dwhat.

Once this was fixed, this was a nice little script!  Very useful!
/* End of text from shadow.cecer.army.mil:grass */
