


dxf2vect(2G)         GRASS Reference Manual          dxf2vect(2G)



NAME
     dxf2vect - DXF format to GRASS vector format conversion
     program
     (G Language Tool)

SYNOPSIS
     dxf2vect dxf_filename output_directory

DESCRIPTION
     dxf2vect generates a set of ascii dig maps, one for each DXF
     layer in the dig directory.  dxf2vect will only recognize
     points, lines, and polylines in the DXF format, and will
     translate these to the GRASS vector format;  other types of
     data are ignored.  The input to the program is as follows:

     dxf_filename
          The name of the DXF file, including its full pathname.

     output_directory
          This is the name of the directory in which dxf2vect
          will place the output files it creates.  An output file
          in ascii dig format will be created for each unique DXF
          "map layer" (aka "level") present in the DXF file.  The
          name of each output file will be the same as that of
          the DXF "map layer" from which it was created.

NOTES
     dxf2vect only converts DXF files to the GRASS vector format.
     dxf2vect does not contain any of the quality control
     functions available in digit that will prevent improper data
     from getting into GRASS.  Also, this program does not create
     new labels nor other means to identify the points or lines
     that occur in the DXF file, except for those entities
     present in the original DXF file.  If present, entities are
     placed in output file(s) corresponding to the levels
     (layers) on which they occurred in the DXF input file.  The
     resulting data in vector format will probably have to be
     massaged in digit to make it useful for something other than
     graphic display.

     dxf2vect does not truncate map layer names to the maximum
     file name size of the operating system in use.

AUTHOR
     Charles Ehlschlaeger, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
     Research Laboratory









Printed 3/28/90            G-language                           1



