


Gbinfer(2)           GRASS Reference Manual            Gbinfer(2)



NAME
     Gbinfer - Bayesian expert system development tool

SYNOPSIS
     Gbinfer [-v] input_script [output_cell_file]

DESCRIPTION
     Gbinfer is an expert system shell having an inference engine
     based on Bayesian statistics (reasoning from past
     experience).  It is designed for use by knowledge engineers
     to develop expert systems for land use planning and
     management.  Knowledge about the probable impact of a land
     use action is reflected in conditional probabilities about
     the impact of similar past actions.

     Consistent with the syntax of Gbinfer, the knowledge
     engineer structures an input knowledge/control script with
     an appropriate combination of layer attributes (GRASS maps
     such as soil.texture, slope, density, etc.) and context
     attributes (e.g. rainfall, temperature, season, subjective
     judgement, etc.).  Options exist for specifying a user
     interface and a database containing prior and conditional
     probabilities necessary to infer the value of a goal
     attribute.  The knowledge engineer also specifies the format
     for display of end results (map layers) in the input script.
     New map layers--one for each possible inferred attribute
     value--are created that contain the probability of the
     inferred attribute value occurring in each grid cell.
     Alternately, a single new map layer called Gbinfer (or
     output_cell_file, if specified) is also created as output.
     This map shows, for each grid cell, the inferred attribute
     value that has the highest probability of occurring in each
     grid cell, given the values of the layer and contextual
     attributes.

     Gbinfer scripts are typed into a file by the user using a
     system editor such as vi, and then input to Gbinfer as the
     input_script named on the command line.  For a complete
     description of the input_script syntax, see the document
     GRASS Tutorial: Gbinfer (forthcoming).  For example scripts
     see the FILES section below.  The results are used to
     generate the new map layers in the current mapset.  The
     option -v(erbose) is described in the OPTIONS section below.

     As stated above, Gbinfer scripts contain descriptions of two
     types of input attributes. The layer type attributes are
     actual grass cell files, with the values defined to be
     ranges of the categories within that cell file. For example,
     if the user chooses slope as one of the layer attributes the
     possible values for the slope attribute might be the
     following:




Printed 10/16/89                                                1






Gbinfer(2)           GRASS Reference Manual            Gbinfer(2)



             flat     (slopes between 0 and 5 degrees)
             low      (slopes between 6 and 10 degrees)
             medium   (slopes between 11 and 30 degrees)
             steep     (slopes greater than 31 degrees)

     The contextual attributes are those that do not represent
     cell layers, but rather, information that reflects the
     context of the decision at hand.  For example, if the user
     chooses rainfall amount as one of the contextual attributes
     the possible values for the rainfall amount attribute might
     be the following:

           low       (rainfall amounts less than an inch)
           medium   (amounts between one and three inches)
           high       (amounts grater than three inches)

     The inferred attribute values are specified along with a
     prior probability and a table of conditional probabilities
     which indicate the probability of that inferred attribute
     value occurring given that an input attribute value has
     occurred.

     Gbinfer will determine the value of contextual attributes by
     prompting the user for input. It will then open the cell
     files corresponding to each layer attribute. Gbinfer then
     determines the values for all layer attributes in each grid
     cell.  Using the conditional probability tables, the prior
     probabilities, and Bayes theorem, Gbinfer calculates the
     output probabilities for each inferred value and writes its
     probability of occurance as a percentage.  It also
     determines which value is most likely to occur in that cell
     and writes that to the output_cell_file.

OPTIONS
     -v   Provides verbose information as the program is running.
          The information includes a listing of the symbol table
          used by Gbinfer.

SEE ALSO
     GRASS Tutorial: Gbinfer

FILES
AUTHOR
     Kurt Buehler, Purdue University











Printed 10/16/89                                                2



