


d.labels(1)  	     GRASS Reference Manual	    d.labels(1)



NAME
	d.labels - Create/Edit GRASS label files 

SYNOPSIS
	d.labels  [paint/labels file_name]
	(Not Available through grass3 menu)

DESCRIPTION
	The d.labels program allows you to interactively create and 
	modify paint/label files for use with the paint map, Pmap[2P],
	and Dpaint.labels[2D] programs.  Paint/label files that you 
	create will be stored in your mapset.  d.labels requires the 
	use of the graphics display.  Before running d.labels, you 
	should plot a cell-file and/or a vector-file on the graphics 
	display for use as a visual reference as the labels are placed.
	Once you have started d.labels and have chosen a label file 
	name you will then be asked to indicate label positions on the 
	map display with the mouse-pointer, and to edit label parameters 
	that define the label's size, color, and other characteristics 
	through use of a visual-ask (VASK) data entry screen.

USER PROMPTS

	If you do not enter a paint/labels file name on the command line,
        you will be prompted to enter the name of either an old 
	paint/labels file that you wish to modify, or a new paint/labels 
	file that you wish to create.  
	The following is the file name prompt:

		Enter the name of an existing labels file
		Enter list for a list of existing labels files
		Hit RETURN to cancel request
		>


	For a new paint/label file, you will be prompted to indicate a
	location on the graphics display for the first label.  Once you 
	have

		Mouse Buttons
		 Left:    Place Label Here
		 Middle:  Quit
		 Right:   Where Am I ?

	indicated a position, you will be presented with a data-entry 
	screen (also known as a VASK screen) so that you can enter the 
	paint/label parameters that define how the label will appear on 
	the display or on the color printer.  Once you finish entering 
	the label-parameters, and you hit the <ESC> key to proceed, the 
	label will be displayed on the screen.  





GRASS 3.1		 U.S. Army CERL				1






d.label(1)	     GRASS Reference Manual	       d.label(1)



	A new prompt will now appear, asking for the approval of the
	new label,

		Mouse Buttons
		 Left:    Accept this Label
		 Middle:  Quit
		 Right:   Reject this Label

	If you like the appearance of the label, hit the "left" button
	of the mouse, if not, hit the "right" and you will be presented
	with the data entry screen again.  Once you approve the label's 
	appearance you will be asked to indicate the position of the next 
	label.
  	For an old paint/label file, you will be shown the labels in the 
	file.  A new prompt will appear,
		
		Mouse Buttons
		 Left:    Edit existing Labels
		 Middle:  Quit
		 Right:   Add new Labels

	If you select to "edit existing labels", you will be prompted to
	select the label by using the mouse cursor. The selected label's
	outer border will be high-lighted, and you will be asked to
	accept or reject the selection. If you accept the selected label
	a VASK screen will be presented for modification.

	If you select to "add new labels", prompts and screens will
	appear as explained above for new labels.

	On-Line help is available.  If you are puzzled about what should 
	go in a data entry field, just enter "help" in that field, hit 
	the <ESC> key, and you will be presented with a short description 
	of the field and what you may enter.


















GRASS 3.1		 U.S. Army CERL				1






d.label(1)	     GRASS Reference Manual	       d.label(1)



	The Following is a list of the different fields in the data entry 
	screen and and a short description of each one.

	TEXT: The user can enter up to four lines of text.

	SKIP: yes/no. If no, label will be printed.  If yes, the label 
	      will be retained in the file but not printed.

	LOCATION: Determines where the text will be located on the image.
		  The user specifies the easting and northing, and 
		  (optionally) specifies a vertical and horizontal offset 
		  (in printer pixels) from the specified easting/northing. 
		  (The vertical offset will shift the location to the 
		  south if positive, north if negative. The horizontal 
		  offset will shift the location east if positive, west 
		  if negative.) These offsets are provided to allow finer 
		  placement of labels.

	RESET LOCATION: yes/no.  If yes, the user will be allowed to use 
	          the mouse to select a new location for the label.  The 
		  mouse buttons will function as follows:

			Mouse Buttons
			 Left:    Place Label Here
			 Middle:  Where Am I ?
			 Right:   Quit

	PLACEMENT: Determines which part of the label to which the 
		   location refers.  This may be specified as:

			lower left	(lower left corner of the text)
			lower right	(lower right corner of the text)
			lower center	(bottom center of the text)

			upper left	(upper left corner of the text)
			upper right	(upper right corner of the text)
			upper center	(top center of the text)

			center	(center of the text)

	TEXT SIZE: This determines the size of the letters. The size 
		  specifies the vertical height of the letters in meters
		  on the ground. Thus text will grow or shrink depending 
		  on the scale at which the map is drawn.








GRASS 3.1		 U.S. Army CERL				1






d.label(1)	     GRASS Reference Manual	       d.label(1)



	TEXT COLOR: This selects the text color.  This color can be 
		  specified in one of four ways:

			1) By color name:
				aqua	 black	 blue	 brown
				cyan	 gray	 green	 grey
				indigo   magenta orange	 purple
				red 	 violet  white   yellow

			2) As red, green, blue percentages.
			      for example: .5 .4 .7
                           (This form is not supported by Dpaint.labels[2D].)

			3) By printer color number to get the exact 
			   printer color.
			   (This form is not supported by Dpaint.labels[2D].)

			4) Specify none to suppress the lettering.

	WIDTH: This determines the line thickness of the letters.  The 
	     normal text width should be set to 1.  Larger numbers can be 
	     used to simulate bold face. (Dpaint.labels[2D] ignores this 
	     value and always uses 1.)

	HIGHLIGHT COLOR: The text can be highlighted in another color so 
	     that it appears to be in two colors. The text is drawn first 
	     in this color at a wider line width, and then redrawn in the 
	     text color at the regular line width.  Highlight colors are 
	     not shown on the graphics display, they are only shown in the 
	     output out paint and Pmap.

	HIGHLIGHT WIDTH: Specifies how far from the text lines (in pixels) 
	     the highlight color should extend.  Highlight colors are not 
	     shown on the graphics display, they are only shown in the 
	     output out paint and Pmap.

	BACKGROUND COLOR: Text may be boxed in a solid color by specifying 
	     a background color (see TEXT COLOR above to specify a color).
	     Specify none for no background.

	OPAQUE TO VECTORS: yes/no. This field only has meaning if a 
	     background color is selected.  yes will prevent vector lines 
	     from entering the background.  no will allow vector lines to 
	     enter the background.

	BORDER COLOR: Select a color for the border around the background.
	     Specify none to suppress the border.





GRASS 3.1		 U.S. Army CERL				1






d.label(1)	     GRASS Reference Manual	       d.label(1)



"SEE ALSO"
	Dpaint.labels Pmap paint

AUTHOR
Dave Johnson, DBA Systems, Inc., 10560 Arrowhead Drive, Fairfax, Virginia 22030
RL Glenn, USDA, SCS, CGIS Division
