
  Notes on the Intergraph driver.
  GRASS Team,  Summer of 90.  -mh.

  Environ V is the window library.
  /usr/include/tools.h

  The manual they gave us is wrong.  The Environ V library to include in
  the compilitation is: -ltools_s

  Window coordinates are (0,0) in the upper left corner and (MAX, MAX)is
  in the lower right corner. (as you are looking at it)

  The other 'D' programs are in the sub-dir igraph_progs

  The driver can show all 16 to 512 acitve colors, but it can't
  highlight or toggle the last 16 colors.  This is in all GRASS drivers
  and is due to the fact that the GRASS standard colors (16 of them) will
  always stay the same color in float mode.

  The active window will have it's vlt colortable loaded in as the
  current set of colors.  This becomes a problem when we use an
  Environ V window as the ascii terminal for GRASS.  When the mouse is
  moved into the GRASS window the GRASS graphics colors become active.
  When the mouse is outside the GRASS graphics window the other window's
  colors become active and anything displayed in the GRASS graphics window
  will not display the correct colors.  I have talked to a number of 
  Enivron V people and they say there is no way to force the GRASS
  colors to be active all the time.

  Intergraph has there own fixed colors (14 of them).  When the GRASS
  driver becomes active you will notice that the rest of the screen may
  change colors, depending on what colors were chosen for your workstation.
  This occurs because I set the Intergraph fixed colors to GRASS colors.
  I couldn't see losing 16 colors for GRASS's fixed colors and 14 more
  from Intergraph colors, especially on workstations that don't have that
  many colors in the first place.

============

Three problems that I believe are related:

(1)  I tried creating the graphics window with a border.  This was to
   allow the user to resize and move the window like the other Environ V
   windows.  Before the main loop in SWITCHER I called Graph_Set() like
   we normally do.  I called the special modify function and I was able to
   reset and move the window.   But it wouldn't work after we started
   reading from the pipe (fifo).  The EVENT signals would never be
   sent for any type of modify.

   This idea works fine for the Digraph program.
      src/D/devices/IGRAPH/igraph_progs/digraph

(2)  window_act.c:
  Check_window_refresh(): is suppose to refresh the 
graphics window.  This plain doesn't work, period.  Same, the event
(refresh) signals were not being sent.  That is not true.  It will 
send signals when the window is very created, but then it stops.

(3)  window_act.c:
  Mouse_window_activation() -  activates the graphics window when the
   mouse in the window.  Deactivates the graphics window when the mouse
   is outside the window.
   When the window is activated the GRASS vlt (colors) are loaded
   and the virtual screen will reflect the GRASS colors.
   When the window is deactivated the virtual screen will have the 
   default colors, including the GRASS window.

   WARNING:
     There is a problem with "d.colors", which is also the interact selection
     in 'display' .
   


   In "d.colors", the mouse activation will not work properly.
   Moving the mouse into the window will NOT activate the graphics
   window.
   Once the graphics window is deactivated, the mouse has to
   be sitting in the graphics window while you give a graphics command
   (like toggle or highlight) before the window will become active.
   This also holds when using the dumb terminal.
   Yes, the vlt colortable is being loaded in float mode.

   If you tried:   Dcolormode float; Dcell soils
   without being in "d.colors" and moved the mouse through the window the
   mouse activation would work.
   It has to do with keeping the pipe open while the commands are being read.

   Forced the graphics window to be activated in Reset_clrs.c when I load the
   colortable in float mode.

