





























































Printed	10/13/97	Baylor University			1






ISMdig2ann <contrib> GRASS Reference Manual  <contrib> ISMdig2ann



NAME
     ISMdig2ann	- Converts a binary GRASS vector (dig) file into
     an	ISM annotation file.
     (GRASS Vector Data	Export Program)

SYNOPSIS
     ISMdig2ann
     ISMdig2ann	help
     ISMdig2ann	input=name output=name

DESCRIPTION
     ISMdig2ann	converts a GRASS vector	file in	binary format to
     an	annotation file	for use	in Interactive Surface Modeling
     (ISM).

COMMAND	LINE OPTIONS
     Flags:

     -n		       Do not go interactive.

     Parameters:

     input=name	       Name of the binary GRASS	vector input file
		       to be converted to ISM annotation format.

     output=name       Name of the ISM annotation output file.

     If	the user runs ISMdig2ann without giving	the names of an
     input and output file on the command line,	the program will
     prompt the	user for these names.

NOTES
     ISMdig2ann	produces windows to enable the user to select
     line and area attributes to be associated with the	data in
     the annotation file.  By clicking on the attribute	boxes,
     the user may select any of	8 different colors, 10 different
     line styles, three	line widths, and indicate whether or not
     to	display	the label for each data	attribute.  For	area
     attributes, there are 22 different	fill patterns in 9 sizes.
     The -n flag prevents ISMdig2ann from displaying the windows
     for attribute selection, enabling scripts to run
     uninterrupted.

     Since the annotation file created by ISMdig2ann is	placed in
     the current directory, the	user should run	ISMdig2ann from
     the ISM file directory or move the	new file to the	ISM file
     directory.	 In order to use the annotation	file, the user
     must also add it to the ISM table of contents (.toc file) by
     choosing option 3 (edit/create file) under	FILE OPERATIONS.

SEE ALSO
     ISMann2dig, ISMcell2grd, ISMgrd2cell, ISMcell2scat,



GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			2






ISMdig2ann <contrib> GRASS Reference Manual  <contrib> ISMdig2ann



     ISMcont2dig

AUTHOR
     Dave Gerdes, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research
     Laboratory

NOTICE
     This program is part of the contrib section of the	GRASS
     distribution.  As such, it	is externally contributed code
     that has not been examined	or tested by the Office	of GRASS
     Integration.












































GRASS 4.2		Baylor University			3



